# Intro to NIST 800-171
## DFARS review
NIST 800-171 - The framework that helps manufactureres comply with DFARS. 

DFARS 7012 and 7020 - for all DoD solitatitionsm contracts, task orders, or deliver orders. 
* "Flow down" - subcontractors need to be in compliance with DFARS
* Covered Defense Information (CDI) - resides on or is transmitted on internal info on the network.
  * Mandatory to report cyber events
  * Submit malicious software discovered and isolarted in connectuion with a reported Cyber incudent to the DOD Cyber Crimes Center
  * Submit media and info to support the damage assessment

## Key terms
Covered Defence Information: 
* Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) - [definition] requires safequarding or disseminatin controls with laws/regs/gov. policies and:
  * Marked or otherwise identified in the contract, task order, or delivery order and provided to the contractor by or on behalf of DoD in support of the performance of the contract; or
  * Collected, developed, received, transmitted, used, or stored by or on behalf of the contractor in support of the performance of the contract.
* Federal Contract Information (FCI): Info given/created by the government not for public release.
* NIST 800-171 - A subset of NIST 800-53 for CIA (confidentiality, avalibility, and integrity) of CUI in nonfederal systems
  * Federal systems are FISMA/RMF
* Non-federal Orginication (NFO) - An entity that owns, operates, or maintains nonfederal info systems. Need to be compliant with NIST 800-171
  * Federal contractors
  * State/local/tribunal govs.
  * Colleges/Universities

## Understand Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI):
* Requires safeguarding/dismination controls but not under EOCNSI (Executive Order Classified National Security Information), any predecessor or successor order, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. (Executive order 13556)
* not secret - but still not public information
* Can be found it basically any information
  * **CDI and FCI are both types of CUI.**

Types of CUI:
* Basic: Basic handlng and dissemination controls in Final Rile by NARA.
  * FISMA requires that CUI Basic be protected at the FISMA Moderate level and can be marked as either CUI or Controlled.
* Specified: a subset of CUI where the authorizing law, policy, or regulation puts more restrictive controls on the handling and control of the CUI-specified content

CUI Examples: 
* Agricultue
* Critical infastructure
* port control
* financial
* systems vulnerbility info
* legal
* nucular
* privact
* aquizition
* buisness info
* tax
* transit

## How we got to NIST 800-171



## NIST 800-171 applicability. scoping and requirements



## Body of evidence
