# 01. Today's Cybersecurity Analyst.md

### Privacy vs Security:
* Security is the focus of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA Triad).
* Security is the focus of how to use and share information collected (PII).
  * PII - Personally identifiable information. 
* These are similar and complementary, but have different objectives. **(Know this for the exam.)** <br><br>
* Generally Accepted Privacy Principles (GAPP): 10 practices that orgs should try to follow:
  * Management: The org should document privacy practices, policies, and other related documents.
  * Notices: The org should notify individuals about privacy practices, information collected, and how the information is used.
  * Choice and Consent: The org should obtain direct consent for the storage, use, and sharing of PII.
  * Collection: The org should use the data only for the purpose that the individual consented to.  
  * Use, Retention, and Disposal: The org should only use the data for the intended purpose/use and not any undisclosed purpose. 
  * Access: The org should provide access to an individual's specific records upon request. 
  * Disclosure: An org will only disclose information to third parties with an individual's specific consent.  
  * Security: PII will be protected against unauthorised access. 
  * Quality: The org will maintain accurate and complete information.
  * Monitoring and enforcement: The org will put business processes in place and ensure that it remains compliant with the org's private policy.

### Evaluating Security Risks:
* Vulnerability: a weakness in a device, system, application, or process that might allow an attack to take place.
* Threat: An outside force that could exploit that vulnerability.
* Risks: A combination of a threat and a corresponding vulnerability.
  * Risk = Threat * Vulnerability
    * *(not a literal equation, but a way to demonstrate how to explore risks.)*
    * Additionally, it could be thought of as a Venn diagram with threats on one side, vulnerabilities on the other, and risks in the middle.
    * Finally, NIST SP 800-30 has a more complex chart for determining risks. 
* Identifying Threats: There are a lot of different types of threats that need to be identified and responded to differently depending on type, severity, cause, etc. (E.g., government agencies, military organizations, and companies that operate in related fields)
  * Adversarial Threats: individuals, groups, and organizations that are attempting to delibertily undermind the security of an organization. 
  * Accidental Threats: Individuals doing routine work do something that undermines organizational security. 
  * Structural Threats: When equipment, software, or environmental controls fail due to the exhaustion of resources, exceeding operational capacity, or failing due to age.
  * Environmental Threats: Natural or man-made disasters that occur outside of the organization.
* When identifying vulnerabilities, security analysts should review external threats first, then internal.
* After identifying vulnerabilities, security analysts should review risk likelihood, impact, and score the risk.
  * First, evaluate the likelihood that a threat actor will actually initiate/exploit the risk.
  * Second, determine the effect the exploitation of the threat will have on the organization.
    * This is frequently rated with a "High," "Medium," or "Low" score.
    * This scoring is an example of a "qualitative risk assessment process."
  * Finally, this can be used to determine an overall "High," "Medium," or "Low" risk for the organization.
   
### Building a Secure Network:
* Network Access Controls (NAC): help security professionals:
  * Limit network access to authorised individuals
  * Ensure systems accessing the network meet minimum threshold requirements.
* The 802.1X protocol is a common standard for NAC controls.
  * This uses a RADIUS server & protocol to assess and authenticate (or quarantine) devices attempting access.
  * This uses a supplicant <--> authenticator <--> RADIUS Server.
    * Supplicant: The new device attempting to access the network.
    * Authenticator: Service on a wireless access point or switch.
    * RADIUS Server: The device that determines if access will be permitted. 
  * NAC Solutions Types:
    * Agent-Based: An agent is placed on the device requesting access and communicates with the NAC service. 
    * Agentless: Conducts authentication in the web browser and does not need any software (agent) to run. 
    * In-Band (Inline): Use dedicated appliances between the connecting device and network resource to deny or limit network access that did not pass the NAC authentication process. 
    * Out-of-Band: Use the existing network infrastructure to have network devices communicate with authentication servers and approve/deny network access as needed. 
      * 802.1X is an Out-of_Band solution. 
  * NAC Solutions can be limited based on the following criteria:
    * Time of Day
    * Role
    * Location
    * System Health
* Firewalls and perimeter security:
  * Firewalls are used to control access to networks and are usually set up in the "three-homed fashion." This is a:
    * Internal Network;
    * Screened subnet or DMZ (containing email/web servers); and
    * the Internet.
  * The firewall has a controlled access list (ACL) that determines what to do with a connection request.
  * Firewalls should be set to default deny
  * Packet filtering firewalls: check the characteristics of each packet going through the firewall without any additional context or information.
  * Stateful inspection: Maintain information on the states of each connection passing through the firewall.
  * Next-Generation Firewalls (NGFWs): Add even more information to the decision-making, such as users, applications, and business processes.
    * These are more expensive than the previous types of firewalls.
  * Web Application Firewalls (WAFs): Firewalls specific for protecting against web application attacks (e.g., SQL injection or cross-site scripting).
* Network Segmentation: Logical separation of networks with different purposes and security levels.
* Defence through deception:
  * Honeypots: Designed to appear to attackers as correct, lucrative targets that can simulate a network and protect the real network.
    * This can be used to help gather information on the attacker and block access from them, and secure/prepare the real network.
  * DNS Sinkhole: Feeds false information to malicious software on the network.
    * When a compromised system attempts to obtain information from a DNS server about its command-and-control (C&C or C2) server, the DNS server detects the suspicious request and responds instead with the IP address of a sinkhole system.
    * This is designed to detect and remediate the botnet-infected system.
   
### Secure Endpoint Management:
* System Hardening: Making devices as attack-resistant as possible. This involves removing unnecessary programs, closing ports, configuring settings, and implementing security controls.
* Patch Management: Review and update the security of devices through patching promptly.
  * There may be reasons not to implement a patch, and in this case, there should be adequate compensating controls.
* Group Policies: A way to manage a large number of devices across a network/organization.
  * Microsoft's system is a Group Policy Object (GPO), which can manage devices/users in the object. Different groups can have different security settings based on levels/roles/and job functions. 
* Endpoint Security Software: Network administrators should install at a minimum antivirus software to ensure the security of a system.
  * Host-based Firewalls and Host Intrusion Prevention Systems (HIPSs) can also be installed to complement the firewall settings and usage for additional security.
* Mandatory Access Controls (MACs): Mandatory controls set to control access permissions that users cannot modify.
  * MAC systems are complex to implement and are less common than DAC models
* Discretionary Access Controls (DACs): Controls for a file or resource where the owner can control/delegate at their discretion.

### Penetration Testing:
* Penetration Testing: Tests to simulate an attack using the same methods and tools as attackers. These can be performed by internal or external organizations/staff.
* The four phases are planning, discovery, attacking, and reporting.
* Planning:
  * Add administrative groundwork for the test, and it defines the rules of engagement, including:
    * Timing: When can it take place? Who is informed? Can it be done at a time to have a low impact on the company?
    * Scope: What are the systems, personnel, networks, and business processes that should be tested?
    * Authorization: Who is allowing this to take place? What should happen during the engagement, and if the actions are noted?
  * All of the following should be confirmed in writing to avoid future issues or liability.
* Discovery:
  * When attackers conduct reconnaissance and gather information about the targeted network, systems, users, and applications
  * This may include reviewing publicly available material, performing port scans, using network vulnerability scanners and web application testers to probe for vulnerabilities, and other information gathering. 
* Attacking:
  * NIST has an attack process with the following steps:
    * Gaining Access: Enough data is gathered in discovery to attempt to attack the organization.
    * Escalating Privileges: If only basic access was obtained, then the attacker will attempt to gain higher credentials (system administrator)
    * System Browsing: Explore the environment and attempt to gain access to additional systems.
    * Install Additional Tools: Install tools to help gain more access or information from the system.
  * This process should continue for the agreed-upon timeframe for the assessment, trying to gain as much access and privileges as possible while remaining in the engagement scope.
* Communicate the Results: Communicate what was gained access to and how, so these issues can be patched/mitigated.
* Training/games can be performed to protect networks and help maintain the security profession's skills via three teams:
  * Red Team: Attackers - Trying to protect the system's integrity.
  * Blue Team: Defenders - Securing the environment and keeping the red team out.
  * White Team: Acts as referees - coordinates the engagement and arbitrates disputes.
 
### Reverse Engineering: 
* Reverse Engineering: The technique of working backwards from a finished product to figure out how the product works.
* Isolation and Sandboxing: The process of letting code or applications run in a fake environment to see how it operates to detect malicious software.
  * The "Sandbox" is the environment in which the program is placed to prevent damage to the rest of the environment or network.
  * Code Detention is the process of letting the code run in the sandbox environment and tracking its actions.
* Reverse Engineering Processes:
  * Compiler: Translates code (e.g, Java, Python, etc.) into binary (e.g., 0s and 1s).
  * Decompiler: A process that can attempt to translate code from binary back into Java, Python, etc.
    * This process is difficult and usually does not work very well. 
  * Sandboxing and Monitoring: Putting the code in a different environment (sandbox) and testing it there to explore its inner workings.
  * Hashing can be used to determine if a piece of software can be used in some way.
  * Reverse Engineering Hardware: A more challenging process for attempting to circumvent security.
    * The DoD and NSA give certifications to companies that they deem can be trusted with creating hardware.
  * Part of being a Security analyst is documenting and running through the issues that could happen, and documenting these processes in playbooks and runbooks.
  * Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR): provides many opportunities to automate tasks between various tools and systems.
    * This should be done to create and maintain accurate threat feeds and a comprehensive picture of the organization's security posture.
  * Scripting: Writing code to automate work
  * Integration: Using vendor-provided interfaces to tie products together.
    * Commonly done with Application Programming Interfaces (APIs)
    * APIs usually have the same functionality as the web-based services, but allow users to use them in coding and automation services. 
  * Webhooks: Allow applications to communicate via web request.
  * Plug-ins: Small programs that provide an opportunity to increase integrations.
  * Single Pane of Glass Approach: The goal is to have one interface to interact with all work. This isn't really possible, and there's always "one more system."
  * Additionally, users want to automate portions of their incident response plans.



## Section Goals:
1. Know the three objectives of cybersecurity. 
2. Know how cybersecurity risks result from the combination of a threat and a vulnerability. 
3. Be able to categorize cybersecurity threats as adversarial, accidental, structural, or environmental. 
4. Understand how networks are made more secure through the use of network access control, firewalls, and segmentation. 
5. Understand how endpoints are made more secure through the use of hardened configurations, patch management, Group Policy, and endpoint security software. 
6. Know that penetration tests provide organizations with an attacker's perspective on their security.
7. Understand how reverse engineering techniques attempt to determine how hardware and software function internally. 
8. Know how machine learning technology facilitates cybersecurity analysis. 
9. Understand the importance of efficiency and process improvements to security operations.

## Related Labs:
&ensp; 1.1 Create an inbound firewall rule </br>
&ensp; 1.2 Create a Group Policy Object </br>
&ensp; 1.3 Write a Penetration Testing Plan </br>
&ensp; 1.4 Recognize Security Tools </br>















