# 02. System and Network Architecture.md

### Infrastructure Concepts and Design
* There are three main concepts for security operations: serverless computing, virtualization, and containerization.
* Serverless Computing: This is usually cloud computing, but also Functions as a Service (FaaS)
  * The process is calling a function on a cloud or separate devices. (e.g, Amazon AWS Lambda, Google App Engine, Azure Functions. etc.)
  * Benefits include reduced cost as functions are only used (and paid for on an as-needed basis). 
* Virtualization: Uses software to run virtual computers on real hardware.
  * Helps with the creation of Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) running on centralized hardware for desktops across a network or organization.
  * Virtual security appliances are also part of the VDI ecosystem.
  * Advantages for VDI use also come with monitoring challenges for Security Administrators and Analysts. 
* Containerization: permits applications to be run in their own dedicated environments with their own required components. \
  * Components include libraries, configuration files, and other dependencies.
  * Kubernetes and Docker are examples of containerized technologies.
  * They create their own units of virtualization to be portable across operating systems and hardware platforms.
  * Less resource-hungry as they don't need their own operating system (like a VM).
    * **Note: For the exam, know the differences and benefits between serverless computing, virtualization, and containerization**
 
### Operating System Concepts:
* Hardening Systems: System hardening involves using the following systems to secure (harden) devices:
  * Updating and patching the systems
  * Removing unnecessary software
  * Restricting and logging admin access
  * Controlling the creation of new accounts
  * Enabling logging
  * Using the appropriate monitoring
  * Turning on capabilities like disk encryption and secure boot
* The Center for Internet Security (CIS) provides lists of hardening guides and configurations for operating systems.
* Windows Registry: a database that contains all Windows operating system settings.
  * This is a good resource for a security analyst, but also a target for hackers and bad actors.
  * The Windows registry has five main root keys:

| Root key | Description |
| -------- | -------- |
| HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT (HKCR) | COM object registration information. Associates file types with programs |
| HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE (HKLM) | System information, including scheduled tasks and services |
| HKEY_USERS (HKU) | Information about user accounts |
| HKEY_CURRENT_USER (HKCU) | Information about the currently logged-in user |
| HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG (HKCC) | Current local hardware profile information storage |

* Each root key has "registry hives", grouped keys and values that are connected to the root keys.
  * Values include strings, binary, numeric data, lines to other reference keys, or Windows-specific component data.
  * Registry Keys can be controlled by allowing/denying access via Windows-native controls.
* File Structures and File Locations:
  * Windows configurations are commonly stored in the:
    * Windows Registry
    * `C:\ProgramData\`
    * `C:\Program Files\`
    * User Files
    * AppData directory
  * Linux configurations are commonly stored in the:
    * `/etc/` directory
    * service or program-specific locations
  * MacOS configurations are commonly stored in the:
    * `~/Library/Preferences`
    * `/Library/Preferences`
  * **Note: The exam will ask about the locations of Windows and Linux configuration files.**
* System Processes: Core processes for operating systems, usually with similar functions. 
* In Windows, the core system process is the NT kernel, which is found in `C:\Windows\System32\notskrnl.exe` and always has a process ID of 4. 
* Other processes include, but are not limited to:
  * The registry process
  * Memory compression
  * Session manager subsystem (`smss.exe`)
  * Windows subsystem process (`crss.exe`)
  * Services control manager (`services.exe`)
  * Windows logon process (`winlogon.exe`)
  * Windows initialization process (`wininit.exe`)
* Hardware Architecture: Vulnerabilities are created to run on specific hardware and may not work on all devices.
  * E.g., A Windows computer running on x86 may be vulnerable to something Apple's M1 chip is not. Although Apple can emulate x86, it isn't the native architecture of the CPUs.
 
### Logging, Logs, and Log Ingestion:
* Time Synchronization: Logs from different systems and services will need to be correlated for accurate tracking and documenting of issues.
* Network Time Protocol (NTP): Synchronizes time across devices via an NTP server.
* Logging Levels: Network devices have logging levels associated with them, which can vary based on organization.
  * Organizations should use the following log considerations:
    * Logs should be detailed enough to be useful, but do not need excessive information.
    * Logs should be protected.
    * Logs should be sent to a central location.
    * Logs should be validated.
    * Logs should be checked as part of system monitoring
    * Unnecessary logs should be avoided.
    * Log retention policies and procedures should be created and followed.
   
### Network Architecture:
* On-Premises (On-prem): networks consisting of routers, switches, security devices, firewalls, IPS/IDS, NACs, network scanners, etc., all making up a physical network.
* Cloud: The underlying environment is provided by a cloud service provider (depending on the agreement between organizations):
  * Software as a Service (SaaS): complete, ready-to-use software applications delivered over the internet, typically via a web browser.
  * Platform as a Service (PaaS): cloud-based environment with tools, libraries, and middleware for developers to build, test, and deploy applications without managing the underlying infrastructure.
  * Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): on-demand access to fundamental computing resources—virtual servers, networking, and data storage—over the internet. 
  * Virtual Private Cloud (VPC): A cloud service provider provides an on-demand, semi-isolated cloud environment.
* Hybrid: A combination of on-prem and cloud environments.
* Network Segmentation: The physical or logical separations of sections of a network from one another or the internet.
* Physical Segmentation: The process of separating networks by using different devices, wires, and/or an air gap to separate a network from others.
* Virtual Segmentation: Using VLANs, virtual machines, compartmentalization, and other logical controls to separate segments of a network that may be using the same physical hardware.
* Virtual Segmentation and Compartmentalization can help:
  * Reduce a company's attack surface.
  * Limit the scope for regulatory compliance.
  * Increase availability by limiting impact.
  * Increase efficiency by decreasing congestion on larger networks.
* Virtual Segmentation includes tools like:
  * Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs): Creating multiple networks by virtually (logically) creating multiple separate networks with the functionality of switches and routers.
  * Jump Box (or Jump Server): A system within a logical segment that can communicate with devices outside of the segment.
    * E.g., if VLAN A and VLAN B need to communicate, they can do so with a managed Jump Box, which would control the communication (likely via VPN) between these otherwise logically segmented networks. 
  * Virtual Private Networks (VPNs): A system of providing secure remote connections to a network.
* Software Defined Networking (SDN): makes networks programmable and allows central management of networks.
  * Allows management of network resources, traffic, and additional intelegence then traditional physical network infrastructure. 
  * Allows control via API.
  * Software Defined Network Wide Area Networks (SDN-WAN) allows SDN service models to provide network services. Potential for more connectivity, but also more risk.
* Zero Trust: For an action to take place on a network, the action must first be validated.
  * Even devices on the same segment (which would usually trust one another) must validate one another before any actions are taken. 
* Secure Access Service Edge (SASE): Uses Software Defined Wide Area Networking (SD-WAN) security functionality across cloud access security brokers (CASB), zero trust, firewall as a service, antimalware, etc. to secure a network.
  * Focus is on ensuring security at the network and endpoint layer.
  * Created for decenteralized, data-center-focused security models.
  * Zero trust, SASE, and SDN are all technologies for creating secure networks.
 
### Identity and Access Management:
* Identities: A set of claims made about an individual or account holder.
* Subjects: The ability to uniquely identify a specific individual and their permissions, rights, group memberships, and attributes.
* Directory: Information and details about an individual, including name, address, title, contact information, and specific details.
* Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA): Used to control access to computers, networks, and services to specific identities.
* Privilege Management: The ongoing managment or identities, rights, and privileges.
* Multifactor Authentication (MFA): The use of two or more distinct authentication mechanisms for authentication.
  * Two of the same method of authentication (e.g., two passwords) is not MFA.
  * MFA types include:
    * Knowledge Factors: Something you know.
    * Possession Factors: Something you have.
    * Biometric Factors: Something you are.
    * Location Factors: Less used - somewhere you are. 
* Passwordless: Authentication without a password, usually using a username paired with a security token, biometrics, or a different, more secure one-factor authentication.
* Single Sign-On (SSO): Allows a user to authenticate once, allowing them to access multiple systems without needing to re-authenticate for each.
  * Shared Authentication: Used in SSO for access to multiple systems with only one authentication.
  * SSO technologies include Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) and Centralized Authentication Service (CAS).
  * Examples of these protocols include solutions like OpenID, OAuth, OpenID Connect, and Facebook Connect. 
* Federation: The ability to link an identity and it's atributes between multiple identity management systems.
  * E.g., websites offering you to "Log in with Google," or Apple, or Facebook.
  * Note that federations are only as strong as their weakest member's security.
  * When choosing to use a federation, this also means adopting the federation's technology.
  * If chosen, the underlying technology, like Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML), OAuth, Open Connect, etc., will need to be incorporated into the system adopted.
  * There are four major technologies:

| | SAML | OpenID | OAuth2 | AD FS |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|Authorization | Yes | No | Yes | Yes |
| Authentication  | Yes  | Yes | Partial | Yes |
| Potential security risks | Message confidentiality, Protocol usage, and processing ocessing risks | Redirect manipulation, Message confidentiality, Replay attack,s CSRF/XSS, attacks Phishing  | Redirect manipulation, Message confidentiality, Authorization, or resource server impersonation | Token attacks (replay, capture) |
| Common uses | Enterprise authentication and authorization, particularly in Linux-centric environments | Authentication | API and service authorization | Enterprise authentication and authorization, particularly in Windows-centric environments | 

* SAML: An XML-based language to send authentication and authorization data between providers.
* Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS): Microsoft's creation for federation authentication.
* OAuth: An authorization framework to allow third-party applications to access HTTP-based services. 
* OpenID Connect: Often paired with OAuth and allows for the creation of an ID Token in addition to the authorization token.
* Privileged Access Management (PAM): A set of practices used to secure privileged accounts using the principle of least privilege.
* Privileged accounts include root, admin, superuser, service, application, local and domain administrator, helpdesk, and emergency access "break glass" accounts.
* Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB): policy enforcement points that can exist locally or in the cloud and enforce cloud security policies.
  * Helps with data security, anti-malware functionality, service usage, access visibility, and risk management.
 
### Encryption and Sensitive Data Protection:
* Public Key Infrastructure (PKI): Used to issue cryptographic certificates for encryption, user and service authentication, code signing, and other purposes.
  * Used for confidentiality and integrity to authenticate an entity.
  * The five main components are:
    * Certificate Authority (CA): creates, stores, and signs certificates.
    * Registration Authority (RA): Verifies the identities of the entities requesting certificates.
    * Directory: Used for storing keys.
    * Certificate Management system: Supports access to and delivery of certificates.
    * Certificate Policy: Practices and procedures that the PKI uses to validate the PKI's trustworthiness.
  * Certificate Revocation List (CRL): Allow certificate authorities to revoke certificates before their expiration dates if they can no longer be trusted.
* Secure Socket Layer (SSL) Inspection: A sucessor to Transport Layer Security (TLS) and its used to encrypt network traffic.
  * SSL inspection requires the insertion of either a monitoring device for offline analysis or by intercepting HTTPS or other TLS connections, terminating them at the inspection device or system, then passing the connection along to the original destination.
  * This allows the intermediary system to inspect traffic while keeping the traffic encrypted on both sides of the connection.
* Data Loss Prevention (DLP): Systems and software to prevent data from leaving the orginization or location.
* Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Any information that could let an individual be identified, either directly or indirectly.
* Cardholder Data (CHD): Credit card information, including the primary account number (PAN), the cardholder's name, and the expiration date.


## Section Goals:
1. Explain infrastructure concepts and designs.
2. Understand operating system concepts.
3. Understand critical operational elements of logging.
4. Explain network architecture concepts and technologies.
5. Understand identity and access management.
6. Describe how encryption is used to protect sensitive data.

## Related Labs:
&ensp; 2.1: Set Up Virtual Machines for Exercises </br>
&ensp; 2.2: Explore the Windows Registry </br>
&ensp; 2.3: Review System Hardening Guidelines </br>
