# 03. Malicious Activity.md

### Analyzing Network Events:
* A cybersecurity analyst needs to gather data and analyze systems and data traffic to detect or prevent incidents.
* This is typically done through the following methods:
  * Router-Based Monitoring: Uses routers and switches to provide information on the flow of traffic and information about the status of the networking devices.
    * Technologies to capture flows of data across networking devices include NewFlow, sFlow, and J-Flow.
    * These capture information about the network traffic and send it to a flow connector.
    * These flows are typically sampled as there can be millions of packets sent through these networking appliances over a short period of time.
    * Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP): A protocol commonly used to collect information from routers and networking devices for analysis.
      * **Note: For the exam, when asked about bandwidth consumption, beaconing, irregular peer-to-peer communication, rogue devices, scans and sweeps, unusual traffic spikes, and activity on unexpected ports, these are first detected by capturing and analyzing network events.**
    * Flow controllers are a central location for router data to be sent to.
    * Flow connectors capture source, source IP, destination, destination IP, how many packets/data were sent, and the protocol used.
    * Can be used to identify information sent to remote Command & Control (C&C) systems. 
  * Active Monitoring: The process of reaching out to remote systems and devices to collect data. Examples include:
    * Ping: Provides basic up/down status of a device using Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).
    * iPERF: Measures the maximum bandwidth that an IP network can handle. Helps establish a network baseline. 
  * Passive Monitoring: The process of capturing information about the network as traffic passes through the network.
    * E.g., A network tap between two devices watching their communications.
* Bandwidth consumption: The amount of bandwidth being used. This should be monitored and a baseline established.
* Bandwidth consumption should be monitored with several of the following:
  * Tools monitoring data flow, trends, status, utilization, and changes.
  * Monitoring tools for high-level usage.
  * Real-time graphs for monitoring bandwidth.
  * SNMP data  to monitor for signs of high load or consumption.]
* Beaconing Activity (heartbeat): Activity sent to a C&C system via botnet or malware to control remote systems via HTTP/HTTPS.
  * Beaconing should be detected by an IDS or IPS.
* Unexpected Traffic Spikes can be caused by scans, sweeps, probes, irregular network traffic, peer-to-peer connections, traffic spikes, activity on strange ports, or direct attacks.
* Monitoring for unexpected network traffic spikes is usually done by:
  * Baselines & Anomaly-Based Detection: Creating a baseline or what's "normal" and creating alerts for changes that do not fit standard usage.
  * Heuristics & Behavior-Based Detection: Using security devices and defined rules for scans, sweeps, attack traffic, and other network issues.
  * Protocol Analysis: Uses a protocol analyzer to capture packets and check for strange or unusual network traffic.
* Denial of Service (DoS): Preventing access to a service via a single system
  * DOS Attacks usually attempt to overwhelm a network, attack a specific service or system vulnerability, and attack intermediary systems or network traffic between two locations.
* Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS): Preventing access to a service via many systems
  * Usually harder to defend against and detect because of the quantity of devices doing the attacking.
  * DOS and "load testing" services have made it easier to perform these attacks.
* Detecting DoS and DDoS attacks includes performance monitoring, connection monitoring, network bandwidth tools, and dedicated IDS or IPS services with DoS detection enabled.
  * Detecting other network attacks includes using IDSs or IPSs, monitoring flows, SNMP, and network information, feeding logs to a central log analysis system, SIEM devices for alerting, and deploying host-level tools.
* Rogue Devices: Devices that are connected to a network that should not be (either by policy or maliciously by an attacker).
  * Regue devices can be identified by:
    * Valid MAC Address Checking: Using MAC addresses to find connected MAC addresses that are not permitted to be on the network.
    * MAC Address Vendor Information Checking: Vendors' MAC addresses have different prefixes for different devices. A MAC address can be used to determine device type/maker.
    * Network Scanning: Scanning the network for devices using tools like nmap.
    * Site Surveys: Involve physically visiting the site and reviewing the devices present.
    * Traffic Analysis: Used to identify irregular or unexpected behaviour.
  * Wired Rogues: Rogue devices connected via physical connection (e.g., cable), usually on networks without implemented port security or Network Access Control (NAC) Technology.
  * Wireless Rogues: Harder to track down, usually can be discovered using network scanning tools like nmap.
 
### Investigating Host-Related Issues: 
* Analyze system resources like CPU, mempory, disk, and network usages.
  * Processor Consumption: Monitoring CPU usage levels and identifying usage over baseline can indicate a new process that could be malicious.
  * Memory Consumption: Monitoring what is being stored in memory. Many organizations monitor memory usage and set alerts for use over a specific amount.
  * Memory Thresholds: Thresholds on resource memory that alert or cap usage over a specific amount.
  * Drive Capacity Consumption and Monitoring: Monitor capacity levels to prevent things from "filling up" and causing outages.
    * This can be tracked with products like Microsoft Intune.
  * Filesystem Changes and Anomalies: Monitor real-time file and system changes to track attacks as they happen.
    * Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment (AIDE): Tools, like Tripwire, can monitor filesystem changes.
      * Downsides include a lot of traffic and movement, so it is challenging to detect issues.
  * Resource Monitoring Tools: Windows has "Resource Monitor" and "resomon," which are Windows' monitoring tools. Performance Monitor, or "Perfmon," is more detailed and tracks network and disk activity.
    * Linux has built-in tools to check CPU, disk, and memory usage:
      * `ps` provides information on CPU and memory usage, time up, and commands that started the process.
      * `top` provides information on CPU and memory usage, hotkeys, and the top processes/reasons of usage.
      * `df` displays disk usage and various flags
      * `w` indicates what accounts are logged in (which would be a running process and potentially using resources)
* Malware, Malicious Processes, and Unauthorised Software can be detected using:
  * Central Management tools (e.g., Microsoft Endpoint Manager)
  * Antivirus and Antimalware tools
  * Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)
  * Software and file blocking (e.g., deny lists)
  * Application Allow Listing
* Rootkits and malware attack command processes. Tools like Metasploit inject attack tools into legitimate processes.
* Data Exfiltration: The process of removing data from systems and data sources. These can be tunneled through DNS or through HTTPS services.
  * EDR, IDS, and DLP services can all help detect Data Exfiltration.
* Unauthorised access, changes, and privileges: 

| Unauthorized Use Type     | Data Logged                          | Location of Data                                  | Analysis Tools                                      |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| Unauthorized access      | Authentication, User creation      | Authentication logs, User creation logs         | Central management suite, SIM/SIEM               |
| Unauthorized changes     | File creation, Settings changes    | System logs, Application logs, Monitoring tools | Central management suite, SIM/SIEM, File and directory integrity checking tools (Tripwire) |
| Unauthorized privilege use | Privilege use attempts, Privilege escalation | Security event logs, Application logs           | SIM/SIEM, Log analysis tools                     |
 
* Unauthorized privileges are harder to track, particularly if they are not centrally managed and audited.
  * Tools for this include Sysinternals' AccessChk can\
  * Linux detects use or change of privileges, but typically requires writing a script to check the specific privileges.
* Registry Changes or Anomalies: Registry run keys can be found in:
  * `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run`
  * `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run`
  * `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce`
  * `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce`
* Schedules Tasks (cron jobs in Linux): Method to maintain persistent access to systems. Analysts should check for these tasks/jobs.
  * Detect unexpected scheduled tasks in Linux by checking cron.
  * You can check crontab itself by using `cat /etc/crontab`, and `/etc/cron`.
  * `-l` lists cron jobs
  * `-u` shows users running as root in crontab.
* Social Engineering: exploiting the human element of security to gather additional information.
  * Social Engineering detection involves: awareness training, reporting processes/events, and letting analysts determine the scope and impact of the social engineering event.
  * The exam also covers obfuscated links: Links that are intentionally deceptive to fool users into using them.
 
### Investigating Service- and Application-Related Issues:
* Monitoring applications and services usually include up/down, performance, transactional logging, and application & service logging.
* Application Logs: Logs that provide significant information about a specific file or service.
  * Linux: Usually located in `/var/log`
  * Windows: Windows Logging Infrastructure or application-specific directories and files.
* Creating new Accounts: Attackers like to create new accounts to attempt to gain or maintain system access. Orgs should review accounts periodically.
* Anomalous activity is common and not necessarily security-related, for example:
  * application or service-specific errors.
  * Applications not starting on boot.
  * Applications that are disabled.
  * Service failures, caused by updates, patches, or other changes.
* It's important to have cinnib serice and log monitoring tools to detect if the anomalies are actual security incidents.
  * It's also beneficial to have antimalware, antivirus, EDR tools, file integrity checking tools, and allow list tools.
  * Windows Service Status: Can be checked by the Service Administrative tool (`services.msc`) or command line tools (PowerShell and `Start-Service`).
  *  Linux Service Status: Checked with the `service` command.
    * `service [fileName] status` returns the status, and `service --status-all` lists all services running.
    * Systems using `init.d` can be checked with `/etc/init.d/servicename status`
* Application Error Monitoring:
  * Windows: Stored in the Windows Application Log and viewed via the Windows Event Viewer.
    * Can be centralized through SCOM
  * Linux: usually stored in the `/var/log` directory.
    * Users can see the most recent logs in the directory using the `tail` command.
* Application Behavior Analysis: Applications that have been compromised may begin to behave erratically. (e.g., outbound communications, resource requests, or new files created)
* To understand what's atypical, analysts should document regular functions and baselines, implement and review logs, and perform heuristic analysis based on antimalware tools and other security monitoring systems.

### Determining Malicious Activity Using Tools and Techniques:
* Analyzing events and their impacts involves:
  * Knowing if specific events are correlated.
  * Understanding people, systems, and services affected, involved, or impacted.
  * Data classification from data assets that were involved in the incident.
  * Gather other information useful to the organization about the event.
  * Use tools like SIEM or Splunk to review logging and aggregation data.
  * Determine the immediate and total impact of an event.
  * Perform/use trend analysis techniques.
* Logs exist on systems, and analysts need to know how to access them, find the needed information, and interpret the content on the logs.
* Event Logs: Windows Event Logs can be viewed by the Event Viewer in the Start Menu.
  * By default, Windows tracks Application, Security, Setup, and System logs for analysis.
  * Event logs are located at `%SystemRoot%\System32\Winevt\Logs`.
  * Event viewer also works for Active Directory (AD) logs, but companies generate a lot of AD logs, which can be unwieldy in this environment. 
* Syslog: Linux logs about the state of the system, events, and other details, typically stored in the `/var/log` directory.
* Security Device Logs: Security Logs capture security events, system events, and other details that can be useful to analysts.
  * Security Logs are formatted differently based on OS or vendor.
* Firewall Logs: All though varitable based on the firewall used, usually contain source and destination IP, port, protocol, and actions taken on the traffic.
* Web Application Firewall (WAF) Logs: A firewall that operates on the web application layer to filter out attacks.
  * Many WAFs have default settings to match OWASP's Top 10 and other common security risks.
* Proxy Logs: Proxies are used for centralised access to traffic or to filter traffic. Their logs can provide useful connection and traffic information, including:
  * Target Host IP, hostname, and what was requested.
  * Amount of content requested.
  * HTTP request method (e.g., `GET` or `POST` requests).
  * Unusual agents or protocol versions.
* Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) and Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS): Rely on the rules created to identify and react to unwanted traffic. 
* Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools: tools for centralized logging and data gathering, reporting, and analysis capabilities.
  * SIEMs typically also have threat information, IOCs data, and other information to help users identify issues across and orginization.
  * Additionally, SIEMs provide incident management and response capabilities for tracking, management, and oversight.
* Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR): Deployed to endpoints to detect and monitor for security issues, attacks, and compromise.
  * Can focus on threat patterns and indicators.
  * Can be set to automatically respond and either neutralize, contain, or alert about a specific threat. 
* Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR): used to integrate security tools and systems using APIs to gather data from firewalls, vulnerability scanners, antimalware tools, IDS & IPS solutions, EDR & SIEM systems, and other security tools.
* Packet Capture: Allows viewing of traffic crossing a network and can provide insight into what's being sent on the network. 
* Wireshark: Packet Capturing tool for Windows, Linux, and Mac. Allows review of packets, packet lengths, IP addresses, ports, and protocols.
* TCPdump: Command-line packet capture tools for Linux.
* DNS and WhoIs: (`https://www.whois.com/whois/`) can gather information about a potentially dangerous domain and IP address.
  * AbuseIPDB: (`https://www.abuseipdb.com/`) Search for IP addresses, domains, and networks reported for abuse.
  * There are other sources like AbuseIPDB, but this is specifically called out by the exam.
  * AbuseIPDB and similar lists have ways of being removed from a list after being put on it.
* Email: Faulty signatures, URLs, Phishing messages, and links are useful for identifying email threats.
  * Digital Signatures can improve security, but this isn't currently widely and defaultly implemented  across most organizations.
    * Digital Signatures usually use S/MIME (Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions).
    * **Note: For the exam, look up and learn to read email headers**
    * DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM): Allows an organization to designate something as coming from their domain. This can be checked for a public key in the organization's DNS entries. 
    * Sender Policy Framework (SPF): An authentication technique to publish a list of authorised email servers. 
    * Domain-Based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance (DMARC): Has authentication, like DKIM and SPF, but additionally allows a user to determine if they should accept, decline, or quarantine a message from a sender.
* File Analysis: Check the integrity of files from the original via hashing or searching files for strings. This can be done in Linux via the `strings` command.
* Sandboxes: A safe, instrumented environment to run potentially malicious files and determine what to do with them.
  * The exam specifically mentions "Joe Sandbox" (with free and paid versions) and "Cuckoo Sandbox" (a self-hosted tool that works on malicious files, PDFs, Microsoft Office Files, and websites).
* grep: A tool for finding specific words or lines in a file. E.g., `grep [WordSearchedFor] [FileName]`.
  * `-w` allows to grep an entire directory
  * `*` can be used as a wild card.
  * `-c` counts the number of occurrences
  * `-i` matches both lower and upper case
  * `-n` shows matching line and line number
  * `-v` shows all lines that do not match the string
  * `-r`   reads all files in the chosen directory recursively
  * `-e` when followed by a pattern, uses the pattern to search
  * Regular Expressions (regex) allow for flexible entries
    * E.g., `grep "CyS[ABC]" example.txt` will search for "CySA," "CySB," and "CySC."
  * `|` allows to "pipe" the answer into an additional function.
    *  E.g., `grep "CySA" example.txt | more` will show additional information around the found search result because of the additional `more` function.
* Data Formats: The CySA exam uses JSON and XML.
  * JSON uses JavaScript and therefore a lot of curly brackets `{}`.
  * XML looks closer to HTML and uses angle brackets `<>`.  



## Section Goals:
1. Analyze network-related potentially malicious activity.
2. Analyze host-related potentially malicious activity.
3. Analyze application-related potentially malicious activity.
4. Explain and understand the uses of tools in identifying malicious activity.
5. Use common techniques to identify malicious activity.
6. Leverage programming languages and data formats as part of malicious activity identification.

## Related Labs:
&ensp; 3.1: Identify a Network Scan </br>
&ensp; 3.2: Write an Application and Service Issue Response Plan </br>
&ensp; 3.3: Analyze a Phishing Email </br>
&ensp; 1.4 Recognize Security Tools </br>
