# 04. Threat Intelligence.md

### Threat Data and Intelligence:
* Data is available from publicly available data gathered via open source intelligence (OSINT) to commercial or closed-source resources and threat feeds.
* Threat feed: Includes information like IP addresses, hostnames, domains, email addresses, URLs, file hashes, file paths, Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs), and other important details.
* Open Source Intelligence: Threat Intelligence that can be gathered from publicly available sources. Examples of open-source-threat-intelligence-feeds include:
  * Senki.org
  * The Open Threat Exchange by AlienVault
  * The MISP Threat Sharing project
  * Threatfeeds.io
  * The U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA)
  * The U.S. Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center
  * The CISA's Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) program and Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations (ISAOS) program
  * Microsoft's threat intelligence blog
  * Cisco's threat security site and the Cisco Talos reputation lookup tool\
  * The SANs Internet Storm Center
  * VirusShare
  * SpamHous
  * Other resources include social media, blogs, forums, the computer emergency response team (CERT), and dark- and deep-web sites. 
* Closed Source Intelligence (or paid feeds): information gathering research, custom tools, analysis modes, or other proprietary methods of gathering, curating, and maintaining their own threat feeds.
* After getting data, the organization needs to determine the confidence level of the data:
  * E.g., Is it timely? Is it accurate? Is it relevant?
  * Summarizing data with a 0-100 (or 1-10) confidence score is a common process for summarizing the data gathered.
* Threat Intelligence Sharing: Sharing threat intelligence across an organization is important across the business:
  * Incident response: Identify what threat actors are doing and identify common techniques and tools.
  * Vulnerability Management: Understand current threats and prepare and prioritize efforts accordingly.
  * Detecting and Monitoring: Allows for timely updates and for the creation of new detection rules.
  * Security Engineering: Can provide insight into current threats and the trends of threats over the lifetime of the tool being engineered.
* Standards-Based Threat Information Sharing: Scaled/organizational threat intelligence requires standardization and tooling for generalized processing and use in automation.
  * Markup languages for this automation include: STIX and OpenIOC.
* Structured Threat Information Expression (STIX): Sponsored by the US Department of Homeland Security and identifies 12 STIX domains for identifying patterns, identities, malware, tools, etc.
  * STIX has been handed off to OASIS (the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards), an international nonprofit consortium
  * Example of a STIX 2.0 JSON description is below. 
```
{
"type": "threat-actor",
"created": "2019-10-20T19:17:05.000Z",
"modified": "2019-10-21T12:22:20.000Z",
"labels": [ "crime-syndicate"],
"name": "Evil Maid, Inc",
"description": "Threat actors with access to hotel rooms",
"aliases": ["Local USB threats"],
"goals": ["Gain physical access to devices", "Acquire data"],
"sophistication": "intermediate",
"resource_level": "government",
"primary_motivation": "organizational-gain"
}
```
* Trusted Automated Exchange of Indicator Information (TAXII): A follow-up protocol to STIX intended to allow cyber threat information to be communicated at the application layer via HTTPS.
  * TAXII specifically is designed to support STIX and the data exchange. 
* Open Indicators of Compromise (OpenIOC): Another format, which is an XML-based framework.
  * The OpenIOC is created by Mandiant.
  * OpenIOC includes the IOC name, description, references to an investigation or case, information about the maturity, and indicators of compromise.
* Intelligence Cycle: With threat intelligence planning, it's important to adopt a lifecycle. The most common one has the following five phases.
  * Requirement Gathering: Gather information from breaches, compromises, industry trends, or risk assessments. This includes:
    * Assess the security breaches and events the organization has faced.
    * Assess what information could have prevented or limited the breach.
    * Assess what controls and security measures were not in place that could have mitigated the breach.
  * Data Collection: Collect data from threat intelligence sources to meet the gathered requirements.
  * Data processing and Analysis: Process the data and input it into the tool or automated system to be useful and generate reports for leadership and relevant stakeholders.
    * Data from different sources could be formatted differently, unformatted, or unprocessed. Analysts should prepare data to be used by a centralized system for use/effectivness. 
  * Intelligence Dissemination: Distribute data to the leadership who need access to it to make informed decisions or use it for security operations roles.
  * Feedback: Gain feedback for continuous improvement to create better requirements, continuously improve, and become more secure.
* Information and Analytics Centers (ISACs): Threat intelligence communities to help share threat intelligence information.

### Threat Classification: 
* Threat actors:
  * Nation-state: Most access to talent, equipment, resources, and time. These have the resources of a country supporting them.
  * Organized Crime: Focuses attacks usually for financial gain. Ransomware is a common type of organized crime attack.
  * Hacktivists: Using hacking for a political or philosophical end. Can be large groups to indevidual threats.
  * Script Kiddies: Relatively inexperienced hackers using preexisting tools.
  * Insider Threats: Most common, harder to detect, and frequently non-malicious threats posed to an organization from someone on the inside.
  * Supply Chain: Can put issues or backdoors in software or hardware in the supply chain that is then used by other companies.
    * Note: The exam breaks them up into intentional and unintentional threats.
* Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) are usually broken into Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs).

### Applying Threat Intelligence Organization-Wide:
* Proactive Threat Hunting: Often triggered by new data, tool, or reason to establish a hypothesis about a new threat, threat actor, or type of threat.
  * After creating a hypothesis, the next step is to investigate the threat.
    * Create a threat level analysis, threat classification, and TTP concepts.
  * If the new threat is discovered, then countermeasures need to be developed and taken to counteract the threat.
  * Proactive threat hunting processes can include:
    * Establishing a hypothesis;
    * Profiling Threat Actors and Activities;
    * Threat Hunting Tactics;
    * Reducing the Attach Service Area;
    * Bundling Critical Assets into Groups and Protection Zones;
    * Understanding, Assessing, and Addressing Attack Vendors or the means by which an attack is conducted;
    * Integrated Intelligence; and
    * Improving Detection Capabilities.
* Focusing Threat Hunting: For the exam, prepare for these three areas of threat hunting:
  * Configurations and misconfigurations.
  * Isolated networks.
  * Business-critical assets and processes.
* Indicators of Compromise (IOC): Used to detect breaches, compromises, malware, and other activities associated with attacks.
  * Collection: How to collect data that indicates compromise.
  * Analysis: Need to determine if the collected data actually shows an indication of compromise.
  * Application: Using analysis to understand if the compromises have occurred and what action needs to be taken, as well as being used for analysis.



## Section Goals:
1. Describe threat actors, classification standards, and common terms. 
2. Describe tactics, techniques, and procedures. 
3. Understand how open and closed source intelligence is collected and where it is acquired.
4. Explain Threat Hunting and IOCs. 

## Related Labs:
&ensp; 4.1: Explore the AlienVault OTX </br>
&ensp; 4.2: Set Up a STIX/TAXII Feed </br>
&ensp; 4.3: Intelligence Gathering Techniques </br>
