# 05. Reconnaissance and Intelligence Gathering.md

### Mapping, Enumeration, and Asset Discovery:
* Host Enumeration: Process of creating a map of an organization's networks, systems, and other infrastructure by combining information-gathering with manual research to identify the environment.
* Discovery Processes:  Asset discovery process for finding new or moved devices on the network.
  * Asset Discovery and Penetration (pen) testing are used to see what devices are on the network.
* Active Reconnaissance: Typically used during enumeration to scan for systems, services, and vulnerabilities.
  * Scanning systems without permission may be illegal.
  * Additionally, scanning may cause issues internally, so communication and permissions with the correct individuals are required.
  * Scanning may disrupt processes or devices, which should be black-listed from the engagement scope to prevent issues.
* Network Topology: A scanning tool can traverse a network, giving a tester or analyst an idea of the overall network layout.
  * nmap or Zenmap can be used to traverse a network. Zenmap (which uses nmap) can create a graphical interface to visualize the network map.
  * Data taken from these scans is not perfect and can vary based on connected devices, physical/WiFi connections, firewalls, VLANs, and VMs.
    * Always review data to make sure sections of the organization or devices are not missing.
* The `ping` command is a low-level network request to return an echo request showing the "on" status of the requested device.
  * This communication takes place via Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
  * E.g., `ping 172.31.48.137`
  * `hping` is more Advanced and allows for customization of the ping request.
  * E.g., `hping -p 80 -S 172.31.48.137` where `-p 80` means to send via TCP port 80 and `-S` means that the `SYN`flag should be sent.
* Port Scanning: Tools designed to send traffic to remote systems and gather responses to gather information about what's on the network.
  * Port Scanners gather data, including:
    * Host discovery
    * Port Scanning and service identification
    * Device fingerprinting
    * service version identification
    * operating system identification
  * Port scanning should be used via automation in scanning traffic and alerting.
  * Well-Known Ports or System Ports: Ports 0-1023, which are commonly used.
  * Registered Ports: Ports 1024-49151 - assigned by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
  * Ports can additionally be assigned, so don't assume something on a specific port is the typical service.
    * E.g., Just because it's on port 80 doesn't mean it's HTTP. Something else could have been assigned there.
  * Scans can also gather if the port uses TCP or UDP, the MAC address (indicating device type, age, and time till end-of-life), and the number of hops to the host.
* Operating System Fingerprinting: Ability to identify operating systems based on network traffic.
  * Typically done using TCP/IP stack fingerprinting
  * Compares responses between TCP and UDP packets.
* Service Identification: The ability to identify a service (which can provide information about useful vulnerabilities).
  * Usually done by grabbing the banner or the connection information provided by a service.
  * `nmap -sV` can be used to gather the service version.
* nmap: The most commonly used port scanner that's open source, has a lot of functionality, and is free.
  * Useful nmap flags include:
    * a scan technique, like TCP SYN, to specify a specific scanning method.
    * a port range, to only scan the most common or likely ports.
    * Service version using the `-sV` flag.
    * OS detection using the `-O` flag. Zenmap is nmap's graphical user interface (GUI).
* Angry IP Scanner: a multi-platform GUI port scanner with "fetches" that can collect specific port data. (Requires Java to run.)
* Maltegro: Open source port scanner with a focus on OSINT gathering and connecting data points with a robust GUI.
* Metasploit Framework or "Metasploit": Usually used for pen testing, but it can also gather SSH server version information and port scanning information.
  * Broad range of functionality, including the ability to scan for ports using TCP SYN, and other scanning modules.
* Recon-ng: module reconnaissance tool with a command line interface and search/module selection. 
  * Built into Kali Linux and can be used via the `marketplace search` command.
  * Tools like "hackertarget" can help with OSINT data gathering and can integrate with OSINT services like Showden.
* Other prot scanning tools include Qualys vulnerability scanner, OpenVASD, and Tenable Nessus' vulnerability scanners. 

### Passive Discovery:
* Passive Discovery: The process of gathering data about the organization, network, and systems without performing any probes.
  * Relies on logs and other data, which can be out-of-date or not give a full picture of the entire network environment.  
* Network devices log their own activities and include information about network device logs, configurations, and flows.
  * Most network devices send logs to a central syslog utility via SNMP. Otherwise, logs could not be viewed without a user logged directly into the network device console.
  * Network logs can vary, but are usually similar to Cisco's log levels. (see below). 

| Level | Level Name   | Example                          |
|------:|-------------|----------------------------------|
| 0     | Emergencies | Device shutdown due to failure   |
| 1     | Alerts      | Temperature limit exceeded       |
| 2     | Critical    | Software failure                 |
| 3     | Errors      | Interface down message           |
| 4     | Warning     | Configuration change             |
| 5     | Notifications | Line protocol up/down         |
| 6     | Information | ACL violation                   |
| 7     | Debugging   | Debugging messages               |

* Network Device Configurations: Helpful for mapping network topology. Configurations usually include networks, routes, systems the device interacts with, and other network details.
* Netflow: Cisco network protocol for collecting IP traffic information for monitoring.
  * A netflow analyzer can help create a network baseline.
* Netstat: Used for local host network information gathering, including:
  * Active TCP and UDP connections, filtered by major protocol: TCP, UDP, ICMP, IP, IPv6, etc.
  * Which executable file created the connection, or the process ID (PID),
  * Ethernet statistics on packets sent and received.
  * Route table information in both IPv4 and IPv6.
* Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP): Client/server protocol that provides IP addresses, default gateways, and subnet masks.
  * This is a quick way to identify many hosts on a network. Also good to pair with other logs (like firewall logs).
  * A `dhcpd.conf` file stores information about hosts and networks. 
  * In Linux, DHCP logs can be found in `/var/log/dhcpd.log` using the `journalctl` terminal command.
* Routers and firewall configuration files: often contain information on successful and blocked connections.
  * By reviewing router and firewall access control lists (ACLs), an analyst can get insight into the firewall rules in place at an organization, just by what traffic is allowed/blocked.
  * Different firewall logs have different formats, but each contains a date/timestamp and details of the event that occurred.
* System Log files: Logs created by systems or processes used for troubleshooting and other system information.
  * Can contain information on how things are configured or allow for the ability to reverse engineer some configurations.
* Domain Name System (DNS) and Whois: A method of gathering information about a system that's publicly available.
* DNS and Traceroute: DNS converts website names (e.g., google.com) to/from IP addresses.
  * NSlookup: provides additional flags and capabilities on top of standard basic lookup information.
  * Traceroute: A Linux tool that allows tracking packets across a network to the host.
  * Domain Names: Managed by name registrars, generic top-level domain (gTLD) registries, and/or country code top-level domains (ccTLD).
    * Registrars interface between customers and domain registries to handle processes like purchase, billing, and day-to-day maintenance, including renewals for domain registries.
    * The global IP address space is managed by IANA. IANA also manages the DNS Root Zone, which handles the assignments of both gTLDs and ccTLDs.
    * Regional authority over these resources is handled by five regional Internet registries (RIRs):
      * African Network Information Center (AFRINIC) for Africa
      * American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) for the United States, Canada, parts of the Caribbean region, and Antarctica
      * Asia-Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC) for Asia, Australia, New Zealand, and other countries in the region
      * Latin America and Caribbean Network Information Centre (LACNIC) for Latin America and parts of the Caribbean not covered by ARIN
      * Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC) for Central Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and Russia
    * Each of the RIRs provides Whois services to identify users of the IP space and their services
    * May encounter an autonomous system (AS) number when gathering information. These are assigned by RIRs.
* DNS Entries: Information can be gathered just by gathering the hostname of a device.
  * (E.g., a device called "AD" will likely have active directory information and be more worthwhile to attack).
* DNS Discovery: Whois searches show a good starting point for DNS-based information gathering efforts.
  * Users can port scan for DNS services, and then use the `dig` command to gather information on the DNS server and query it.
* Zone transfer: Used to replicate DNS databases between DNS servers, but can be used to exfiltrate DNS server data.
  * Zone transfers should not be allowed, except for specific, defined devices; this is still worth testing for analysts and pen testers. 
* DNS Brute Force: Data can be gathered by requesting info from the DNS server for each IP address in the organization, but it can send off IDS and IPS alarms. 
* `host` Command Linux: Provides  IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and email servers.
* theHarvester: a tool to gather emails, domain information, hostnames, employee names, and open ports and banners using search engines.
* Maltego: builds relationship maps between people and other resources
* Shodan search engine: Search engine for Internet-connected devices and their vulnerabilities.


## Section Goals:
1. Explain how active reconnaissance is critical to asset discovery and mapping
2. Know how passive discovery provides information without active probes.
3. Assess data from common tools.
4. Explain asset discovery and device fingerprinting.

## Related Labs:
&ensp; 5.1 Port Scanning </br>
&ensp; 5.2 Device Fingerprinting </br>
&ensp; 5.3 Use the Metasploit Framework to Conduct a Scan </br>
