# 08. Responding to Vulnerabilities.md

### Analyzing Risk:
* Enterprise Risk Management: A formal risk approach to risk analysis, involving identifying risks, determining the severity of the risks, and adopting one or more risk management strategies.
  * Threat: Any possible event that could have an adverse impact.
  * Vulnerabilities: Weaknesses that can be exploited by a threat
  * Risks: the intersection of vulnerability and threats.
* Risk Identification: Identifying the threats and vulnerabilities that exist in an environment.
* Risk calculation: The evaluation determining the probability and magnitude (likelihood and impact) of a risk occurring.
* Risk prioritization: A structured approach to analyzing risk in a structured way. These ways include:
  * Qualitative: Using numeric data.
  * Quantitative: Using subjective judgements.
* Quantitative Risk Assessments usually follow the following methodology:
  * Determine the asset value of the assets with the risk.
  * Determine the likelihood that the risk will occur (usually measured in Annualized Rate of Occurrence (ARO))
  * Determine the amount of damage that can occur (exposure factor)
  * Calculate the single loss expectancy (SLE) (the cost of a one-time event occurring).
  * Calculate the Annual Loss Expectancy (ALE) (the cost in damage expected from a risk each year).
    * `SLE = AssetValue*ExposureFactorPercent`
    * `ALE = SLE+ARO`
* Qualitative Risk Assessments are performed using the High, Medium, and Low analysis of the risk.

### Managing Risk:
* Risk Management: The processes of systematically addressing the risks that face an organization.
  * The risk assessment provides guidance on what risks to prioritize.
* Risk Mitigation: The process of applying security controls to reduce the probability and magnitude of the risk.
* Risk Avoidance: The process of eliminating the risks facing the organization (avoiding the risks)
* Risk Transference: The process of transferring risks to another group or organization (e.g., cyber insurance).
* Risk Acceptance: The process of accepting the risks and not implementing compensating controls.

### Implementing Security Controls:
* Technical Controls: The controls used digitally to preserve Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability.
  * E.g., Firewalls, IDS, IPS, access control lists, encryption, etc.
* Operational Controls: The processes put in place for security
  * E.g., User Access Reviews, Log Monitoring, Vulnerability Management
* Managerial Controls: Procedural mechanisms focusing on the mechanics of the risk assessment process.
  * E.g., Risk assessments, security planning exercises, change management processes, etc.
* Security Control Types: These are created based on desired effect and include:L
  * Preventive controls: Prevent the security issues from happening.
  * Detective Controls: Identify Security Events that have already happened/are happening.
  * Responsive Controls: Helps the organization respond after a security incident.
  * Corrective Control: Remediates any security issues that have already occurred.
  * Compensating Controls: Designed to mitigate risks associated with the security policy.
 
### Threat Classification: 
* Threat Modeling: The process of actively seeking to understand and quantify the threats an organization is likely to face. This includes
  * Assessing Adverserial Capability, resources, intent, and the likely threat actor or organization.
  * Attack Surface: The resources at risk (e.g., people, devices, systems, data, etc.).
  * Attack Vectors: The ways that the organization can be attacked.
  * Impact if the attack were to be successful
  * Likelihood of the attack happening.
* After creating a threat model, the next step is to do research.
  * Threat Reputation: Looking at a site, organization, or other entity to determine the overall threat that they might pose to the organization.
  * The threat reputation is usually paired with an IP address.
  * Indicators of Compromise: Indications or forensic evidence that can help identify an attack. 

### Managing a Computing Environment: 
* Attack Surface Management: All systems and services that have some exposure to attackers. Analysts should reduce the attack service by:
  * Edge Discovery: Identify systems and devices with public exposure. This includes scanning the organization's IP addresses.
  * Passive Discovery: Monitor inbound and outbound traffic for unknown or suspicious devices.
  * Security Controls Testing: Verify that the security controls are working properly.
  * Penetration Testing and Advisarial Emulation: Emulate actions of attackers to find weaknesses in the systems.
    * Bug Bounty: A program that allows an organization to open its systems to inspection from security researchers.
* Configuration Management: Tracking the way that specific endpoint devices are set up.
* Change Management: A formal process for identifying, requesting, approving, and implementing changes to organizational configurations.
* Baseline: A snapshot of a system or application at a specific point in time.
* Version Control: Assigning each piece of software in increasing order of version number.
* Patch Management: The process and implementation of patches to systems.

### Software Assurance Best Practices: 
* Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): The steps in a model for software from creation to decommissioning.
  * E.g., Planning, Requirements, Design, Coding, Testing, Training & Transition, Ongoing Operations & Maintenance, and End of Life & Decommissioning.
  * Phases in the lifecycle also include:
    * Feasibility Phase: An investigation of whether the effort required should be conducted.
      * E.g., Is this a good idea? Is there a better solution or easier way?
    * Analysis and Requirement Definition Phase: Customers determine what the required functionality must be.
    * Design Phase: Functionality, architecture, integration techniques, dataflows, business processes, and other elements that are required.
    * Development Phase: Coding the Application. Involves unit testing and code analysis.
    * Testing and Integration Phase: Individual units or software components are integrated  and tested to ensure proper functionality.
    * Training and Transition: The software has entered general use.
    * Ongoing Operations and Maintenance: Reaches completion, receives minor updates, and performs other work for daily support.
    * Disposition Phase: Reaches the end of the product's life and gets shut down. 
* Waterfall method: There are 6 distinct phases in the software's development, and one follows the other with no overlapping.
  * E.g., Gather requirements, Analysis, Design, Implement, Testing, and Deployment.
* Spiral Model: Reinvents the Waterfall model but revisits four of the phases many times for iterative improvements in the process.
  * Initial Requirements, First Design, Proof of Concept, Test POC and Assess Risks, Round 2 requirements, Update the Design, Second Build, Test Second Build and reassess risks, etc.
* Agile: An iterative and incremental process (rather than linear like waterfall or spiral).
  * Agile has four basic premises:
    * Individuals and interactions are more important than processes and tools.
    * Working software is preferable to comprehensive documentation.
    * Customer collaboration replaces contract negotiation.
    * Responding to change is key, rather than following a plan.
  * Agile additionally has twelve principles:
    * Ensure customer satisfaction via early and continuous delivery of the software.
    * Welcome changing requirements, even late in the development process.
    * Deliver working software frequently (in weeks rather than months).
    * Ensure daily cooperation between developers and businesspeople.
    * Projects should be built around motivated individuals who get the support, trust, and environment they need to succeed.
    * Face-to-face conversations are the most efficient way to convey information within the development team.
    * Progress is measured by having working software.
    * Development should be done at a sustainable pace that can be maintained on an ongoing basis.
    * Pay continuous attention to technical excellence and good design.
    * Simplicity-the art of maximizing the amount of work not done-is essential.
    * The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
    * Teams should reflect on how to become more effective and then implement that behavior at regular intervals.
  * Agile also uses the following terms:
    * Backlogs: Features or tasks that are required to complete the project.
    * Planning Poker: A tool for estimation and planning used in agile development.
    * Timeboxing: An agreed-upon time that a user can use to work on a specific goal.
    * User Stories: High-level user requirements. (e.g., Users can change their passwords.)
    * Velocity Tracking: Adding the estimates for the current sprint's efforts and comparing this to what was completed.
* Rapid Application Development (RAD) Process: An iterative process that relies on building prototypes,
  * RAD involves planning being done at the same time coding is being written.
  * RAD involves the following 5 steps being completed in parallel across different portions of the finished product:
    * Business modeling: Identifying what information is important, how it is processed, and what the business process should involve.
    * Data modeling: Gathering and analyzing all data and objects needed for the effort while also defining their attributes and relationships
    * Process modeling: Create dataflows based on the business model and processes for data handling
    * Application generation: Create the software and prototypes
    * Testing and turnover: Focus on the dataflow and interfaces between components and test prototypes for functionality
* DevSecOps and DevOps:
  * DevOps: Combines the software development and IT operations to optimize the SDLC.
    * Toolchains: Used to improve the coding, building, testing, packaging, release, configuration, configuration management, and monitoring of elements in the software development lifecycle.
    * DevSecOps is the process of integrating security and security management/practices into DevOps.
* Continuous Integration (CI): Development practices that check code into a repository on a consistent and ongoing basis.
* Continuous Deployment (or Continuous Delivery) (CD): Rolls out changes to production automatically after testing.

### Designing and Coding for Security:
* 


























