# 09. Building an Incident Response Program.md

### Security Incidents: 
* Event: An observable occurrence on a system or network.
* Adverse Event: An event that has negative consequences.
* Security Incident: Violation or threat of violation of policies or practices.
* Computer Security Incident Response Teams (CSIRT): Teams responsible for responding to computer security incidents within the organization.

### Phases of Incident Response: 
* Preparation -> Detection & Analysis <-->Containment, Eradication, and Recovery -> Post Incedent Activity [-> Preparation]
* Preparation: Organizations should assemble the hardware, software, and information required to conduct an incident investigation, which includes:
  * Digital forensic workstations
  * Backup devices
  * Laptops for data collection, analysis, and reporting
  * Spare server and networking equipment
  * Blank removable media
  * Portable printer
  * Forensic and packet capture software
  * Bootable USB media with forensic tools
  * Office supplies and evidence collection materials
* Detection and Analysis:
  * Four main incident indicators are usually only noticed because they've been observed by the individual:
    * Alerts: Notifications from an IDS, IPS, antivirus software, data integrity checker, or third-party monitoring service.
    * Logs: Data stored from operating systems, services, applications, network devices, and network flows.
    * Publicly available information: Data about new vulnerabilities and exploits detected.
    * People: Individuals within/outside of the organization can alert about/cause security incidents.
  * NIST recommends the following for effective incident analysis:
    * Profile networks and systems to measure the characteristics of expected activity.
    * Understand normal behavior of users, systems, networks, and applications.
    * Create a logging policy that specifies the information that must be logged by systems, applications, and network devices.
    * Perform event correlation to combine information from multiple sources.
    * Synchronize clocks across servers, workstations, and network devices.
    * Maintain an organization-wide knowledge base that contains critical information about systems and applications.
    * Capture network traffic as soon as an incident is suspected.
    * Filter information to reduce clutter
    * Seek assistance from external resources.
* Containment, Eradication, and Recovery:
  * The Containment, Eradication, and Recovery process involves the following steps:
    * Select a containment strategy
    * Implement the containment strategy
    * Gather evidence needed for response and legal action
    * Identify the attackers and attacking systems
    * Erradicate the issue and recover business operations.
* Post-Incident Activity: Team members undertake forensic procedures, perform root cause analysis, conduct a lessons learned review, and collect enough evidence.
* Forensic Analysis: The process of sifting through the digital evidence to reconstruct the details of what exactly happened.
* Root Cause Analysis: Identify the deficiency that led to the initial attack to remediate these issues.
* Lessons Learned Review: Reviewing what happened, intending to prevent the issue from happening again in the future, and learning from it.
* Evidence Retention: Keeping evidence, with the counsel of an attorney, for civil litigation or criminal prosecution.
  * If there will be no litigation or prosecution, then the evidence should be saved in accordance with the data retention policies.
 
### Building a Foundation for Incident Response: 
* Policy: A document signed by one of the highest-ranking officers in the organization to outline the overall security practice expectations, without too much detail, including:
  * Statement of management commitment
  * Purpose and objectives of the policy
  * Scope of the policy (to whom it applies and under what circumstances)
  * Definition of cybersecurity incidents and related terms
  * Organizational structure and definition of roles, responsibilities, and level of authority
  * Prioritization or severity rating scheme for incidents
  * Performance measures for the CSIRT
  * Reporting and contact forms
* Procedures: Tactical information CSIRT members need when responding to an incident. 
  * Playbooks: The specific actions that will be taken when a specific cybersecurity incident takes place, including:
    * Breach of personal financial information
    * Web server defacement
    * Phishing attack targeted at customers
    * Loss of a laptop
    * Other general security incidents

### Creating the Incident Response Team: 
* In addition to core analysts/CSIRT members, the Incident Response Team may include:
  * Technical Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)
  * IT support staff
  * Legal Council
  * Human Resources
  * Public Relations or Marketing
  * Outsourced Incident Response Providers
* CSIRT Scope of Control: The following questions should be identified in writing:
  * What triggers the activation of the CSIRT?
  * Is the CSIRT for the entire organization?
  * When does the CSIRT work with law enforcement?
  * Who are the contacts, and backup contacts? How can they be contacted?

### Classifying Incidents: 
* Threat Classification: The process of identifying the type of threats and threat vectors encountered, including:
  * Eternal or Removable Media
  * Attrition
  * Internet
  * Email
  * Impersonation
  * Improper Usage
  * Loss or Theft
  * Unknown
  * Other
* Severity Classification: The standardized process of classifying the severity of the threats that are being encountered.
* Scope of Impact: The scope of the threat and the impact that it will have on the organization.
  * Functional Impact: None, Low, Medium, or High impact
  * Economic impact: None, Low, Medium, or High financial impact to the organization.
  * Recoverability Effort: Regular, Supplemented, Extended, or Not Recoverable
  * Impact Categories: None, Privacy, Proprietary, or Integrity Breach/loss occurred during the incident.
 
### Attack Frameworks: 
* Mitre's ATT&CK Framework: Providing Adversarial Tacticves, Techniques, and Common Knowledge base of advisory tactics and techniques.
  * Provides detailed descriptions, definitions, and examples for the entire life cycle.
  * Includes pre-attack, enterprise metrics, cloud computing, mobile devices, networking, containerization, and industrial control systems (ICSs).
  * Provides a free database of adversary techniques, tactics, and related information.
* Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis:
  * A sequence where an adversary deploys something against its victims.
  * This helps analysts discover more information by highlighting the relationships between elements as they follow the edges of the diamond.
  * The model uses the following terms:
    * Core Features: The adversary, capability, infrastructure, and victim (diamond vertices).
    * Meta-Features: The start and end timestamps, phase, result, direction, methodology, and resources used to sequence events.
    * Confidence Value: Analysts are expected to determine based on their personal work (undefined).
* Mitre's ATT&CK Framework: A seven stage procvess including:
  * Reconnaissance: Identifying the targets.
  * Weaoonization: Combines malware and exploits into a payload to attack the target.
  * Delivery: Deploys the tool against the target.
  * Exploitation: Exploits the organization, using hardware, software, or a human vulnerability to gain access or data.
  * Installation: Creates backdoor access for attackers.
  * Common and Control (C2): Creates two-way communication and control of a system.
  * Actions on Objects: The goal is achieved, and the data, information, access, etc., have been gathered.
* Unified Kill Chain: Combines Mitre's ATT&CK Framework, Mitre's ATT&CK Framework, and more into one framework.
* Additional Testing Methodologies:
  * The Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual (OSS TMM)
  * The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Web Security Testing Guide


## Section Goals:
1. Distinguish between security events and security incidents.
2. Name the four phases of the cybersecurity incident response process.
3. Identify security event indicators.
4. Explain how policies, procedures, and playbooks guide incident response efforts.
5. Know that incident response teams should represent diverse stakeholders.
6. Explain how incidents can be classified according to the attack vector where they originate.
7. Explain how response teams classify the severity of an incident.
8. Be able to describe threats and attacks using frameworks and model them using analysis techniques.


## Related Labs:
&ensp; 9.1 Incident Severity Classification </br>
&ensp; 9.2 Incedent Responce Phases </br>
&ensp; 9.3 Develop an Incedent Commiunication Plan </br>
&ensp; 9.4 Explore the ATT&CK Framework </br>
