# 10. Incident Detection and Analysis.md

### Indicators of Compromise:
* Indicators of Compromise (IoC): Information gathered about activity, events, and behavior that indicate malicious activity.
  * Common IoCs include:
    * Unusual Network traffic
    * Increase in database or file share read volume.
    * Suspicious changes to filesystems, registries, and configuration files
    * Non-human traffic patterns
    * Login and user right usage irregularities
    * DoS activities and artifacts
    * Unusual DNS Traffic
  * IoC communities provide information on threats and threat actors, including:
    * IP addresses
    * Domain names, C&C servers, and infected websites.
    * Hashes for infected software
    * Behavior-based information about threat actors and malware.
  * IoC feeds, or communications, are available for free and paid versions.
 
### Investigating IoCs:
* Unusual Network traffic:
  * This can look like beaconing, peer-to-peer connections where there shouldn't be any, port scanning, vulnerability scanning, and other scenarios.
  * There should be defined or recognized patterns of behavior to compare the traffic to to tell if there's something unusual (baseline).
  * Monitoring Outbound Traffic for indicators like:
    * Traffic to unexpected locations
    * Unusual types of outbound traffic (e.g., RDP, SSH, etc.)
    * Unusual volumes of network traffic
    * Outbound DNS Queries
    * DNS Queries for unexpected domains or domains flagged as malicious
    * Unusual times of day.
* Increase in resource usage:
  * Attackers may consume CPU and or memory due to tools and utilities used.
  * Attackers can gather data, which will take up a lot of disk space.
  * Database read volume can also indicate that a user is trying to access a lot of information for malicious purposes.
* Unusual and Account behaviours: 
  * Different behavior tracking is needed for privileged accounts, but also generic ones, and can include:
    * Escalation of Privileges: Additions of new user groups, rights, or access should be monitored.
    * Bot-like behaviour: Commands at high speeds or logging into many systems at a time can be a red flag.
    * Deviation from normal: Anything that's different from baseline could be a cause for concern and can be paired with other concerning activity. 
* Filesystems, registries, and configuration modification:
  * Changing access to filesystems and monitoring tools should be monitored.
    * Tools for this include Open Source HIDS Security (OSSEC) and Tripwire.
* Login and user right usage irregularities:
  * Changes in time of day, day of week, and location can indicate a threat. Especially if there are many in a short period of time.
  * Unusual VPN connections can indicate a threat.
* Denial of Service (DoS) attacks: Direct attack on a single filesystem
* Distributed  Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks: A series of direct attacks directed from many devices to a specific target. 
* Unusual DNS Traffic: Abnormal levels in DNS queries, queries to strange IPs or domains, and large amounts of DNS query failures often indicate compromise.
  * DNS tunneling is an issue that can be monitored by IDSs and IPSs.
  * Fast Flux DNS: Used to take control of Command & Control (C&C) architecture.
* Combining Different IoCs can lead to more conclusive identification of compromise. 

### Evidence Acquisition and Preservation:
* Preservation: Requires acquiring, validating, storing, and documenting the data to consider it preserved. 
  * Attentionally, a documented Chain-of-Custody would be required for legal and law enforcement needs. 
* Chain-of-Custody: Evidence of who had access to the data and when to show that the evidence was not tampered with.
* Legal Holds: Part of the eDiscovery process, telling an organization that a legal hold is underway and they must preserve data.
  * Organizations should have a process for this and can enact it on themselves if they expect a lawsuit.
* Validating Data Integrity: Commonly done with hashing tools to show that the file has not changed or been altered.
  * Hashes are usually of a file, volume, or drive.


## Section Goals:
1. Describe the importance of IoCs to incident detection and analysis.
2. Investigate and describe IoCs.
3. Understand evidence acquisition and preservation.
4. Review log files and determine if an incident occurred.


## Related Labs:
&ensp; 10.1 Explore loCs in Alienvault's Open Threat Exchange </br>
&ensp; 10.2 Identifying Suspicious Login Activity </br>
&ensp; 10.3 Legal Holds and Preservation </br>
