# 11. Containment, Eradication, and Recovery.md

### Containing the Damage: 
* Containment: The process of limiting the scope and impact of an incident, ideally as quickly as possible after determining that the incident is underway.
  * Different security issues have different methods of containment, and containment should be issue-specific.
  * Containment isn't perfect and can cause some collateral damage.
    * E.g., disconnecting a damanged systems may mean loss of availability or functionality.
  * Incident responders need to select the correct entertainment criteria without causing more or unnecessary damage.
  * NIST's Computer Security Incident Handling Guide recommends developing a strategy and then weighing it against the following interests:
    * Potential damage and theft of resources
    * Need for evidence preservation
    * Service availability
    * Implementation time and resources required
    * Effectiveness of the strategy
    * duration of the solution
* Segmentation: Physically or logically separated LANs (VLANs) can help prevent the spread of a security breach to other systems on the separated network.
  * E.g., A section of the network can be quarantined off while the rest of the network and the remaining functionality remain intact.
  * This is usually only successful with correct VLAN implementation and strict firewall rules.
* Isolation: Sometimes, segmentation is good enough, and stronger isolation is needed.
  * This is done by isolating the affected system or isolating the attacker. 
  * Changing firewall rules can be an effective method of isolating the system from an attacker's connection.
  * Isolating the attacker involves sandbox systems to monitor the attacker.
    * A honeypot system is a good method for isolating and observing an attacker in a low-risk or fake environment.
* Removal: One of the best methods for stopping an attack is to remove the infected system from the network.
  * This depends on the affected system, but unplugging the network connection or device can be effective.
  * This isn't perfect. Hackers can create a program to erase evidence of it's existance upon disconnection from the network.
* Evidence Acquisition and Handling: The primary objective is to limit the damage of an attack, but analysts should be conscious of preserving evidence.
  * Although secondary, collecting evidence is crucial to continuing analysis and can be used in legal proceedings against the attackers.
  * NIST also recommends that investigators maintain a detailed evidence log, which includes:
    * Identifying information (MAC & IP addresses, location, serial number, model number, and hostnames)
    * Name, title, and phone number of all people who handled evidence and when.
    * Time, date, and timezone of each occurrence of handling.
    * Location where the evidence was handled.
* Identifying Attackers: It's unlikely that any logged IP addresses will lead to the actual IP addresses of the attackers.
  * It may be worth tracking down the attacker, but it may be more worthwhile to spend that time in incident reaction and network hardening.
  * Usually, this happens because of some financial incentive to find that attacker.
  * Law enforcement may approach the situation differently from the way a security analyst would.
 
### Incident Eradication and Recovery:
* Eradication: The removal of any artifacts of the incident that remain on the organization's network.
  * Eradication involves the removal of malicious code, the sanitization of devices and media, and the securing of compromised accounts.
* Recovery: The restoration of normal capabilities and services after the attack is over.
  * Involves the rebuilding and repatching of systems, reconfiguring firewalls, and updating malware signatures, etc.
  * A root cause should be identified and mitigated so the same method of exploitation can not be reused by the attacker
* Remediation and reimaging: Once an attacker accesses a system, it's permanently compromised and should be rebuilt from scratch or an image or backup.
  * Just removing the issue is not enough. There could still be unseen issues, malware, or backdoors remaining on the system if not completely wiped.
  * There is the issue that a backup may have the same security vulnerability that allowed the attacker to have access.
  * After a security event is a good time to re-review the patching processes and implementations in place.
    * Analysts should start with the affected devices and work outward from there.
    * The order should be systems in the compromise, systems supporting the compromise, and all other systems.
* Sanitation and secure disposal: Analysts need a way to dispose of media that was involved in a security incident, so as not to create another security incident.
  * There are three main methods of Sanitation:
    * Clear: sanitizing the data in all user-accessible storage locations.
      * Can be done through the usual read and write commands, or resetting the device to the factory state. 
    * Purge: Physical or logical methods to target data recovery are infeasible using even state-of-the-art techniques.
      * Can be done through overwriting, block erase, and cryptographic erase.
      * Degaussing: Another purging method using strong magnetic fields. 
    * Destroy: Methods to target data so it's infeasible to access, even using state-of-the-art techniques
      * This includes disintegrating, pulverizing, melting, or incinerating the device or media.
  * Choices should be made on which method based on the type of media and security categorization (low, medium, or high). 

### Validating Data Integrity: 
* Before finishing the recovery process, analysts need to make sure the recovery measures that were put in place were successful. This includes:
  * Validate the users on every authorized system and application in the organization.
  * Verify proper restoration of permissions to each account.
  * Verify the integrity of systems and data.
  * Verify all systems are logging properly.
  * Conduct a vulnerability scan on every system. 

### Wrapping up the Response:
* The incident response process is not complete until the team  completes a lessons learned session, manages the change control process, and creates a formal written incident report.
  * Managing Change Control Processes: After the incident urgency has concluded, the team needs to document all changes made during the incident that may not have gone through the standard process.
  * Conduct a Lessons Learned Session: This helps uncover critical information or changes that should happen to the response procedures.
    * Potential improvements and changes exposed by the incident should then go through the formal change process and be documented for future incident response efforts.
  * Developing a Final Report:
    * This helps by:
      * creating an institutional memory of the incident to be referenced in the future.
      * documenting a record of the incident if future legal action is needed because of the incident.
      * can help identify previously undocumented deficiencies with the incident response process.
    * The CSIRT incident response documentation should include:
      * the order of events
      * root cause of the incident
      * Location and description of the evidence collected
      * Specific actions taken by responders and rationale for the decision
      * estimates of the impacts for stakeholders
      * results of the post-recovery validation efforts
      * Documentation of the issues identified during the lessons learned.
     

## Section Goals:
1. Explain the purpose of containment activities.
2. Know the importance of collecting evidence during a response.
3. Explain how identifying attackers can be a waste of valuable resources.
4. Explain the purpose of eradication and recovery.
5. Define the purpose of post-incident activities.

## Related Labs:
&ensp; 11.1 Incident Containment Options </br>
&ensp; 11.2 Sanitization and Disposal Techniques </br>

