# 12. Reporting and Communication.md

### Vulnerability Management Reporting and Communication: 
* Vulnerability Management Reporting: reports need to be created and distributed to the responsible parties throughout the organization, including security staff, administrators, and auditors.
* Vulnerability reports typically include:
  * Vulnerabilities, including CVE numbers, names, disruptions, and other information
  * A list of affected hosts with the IP addresses and hostnames
  * Risks score for a qualitative measure of the security risk.
  * Mitigation options
  * Recurrence information and likelihood
  * Prioritization efforts, such as what will be focused on first and why.
* Vulnerability reports are typically auto-generated to provide point-in-time statuses on all solutions.
* Stakeholder Identification and Communication: Identification of the proper stakeholders is key for vulnerability management and should include:
  * Technical stakeholders: Need information about vulnerabilities, remediation, and mitigation efforts, as well as prioritization information.
  * Security, Audit, and Compliance: Need a view of the overall vulnerability stance and recurring issues, and trend information to review new or recurring organization issues.
  * Security Management and Oversight: Ingest security information to provide security oversight, recommendations, and additional context.
  * Executive or Leadership Staff: Responsible for the organization's overall security performance and security, and who needs dashboard access to ongoing practices and efforts.
* Compliance Reports: Reports to be conducted regularly to show that the organization is in line with specific governing standards (e.g., PCI-DSS, HIPAA, CMMC, etc.)
* Action Plans: While many issues involve patching systems, there may be large issues that need to be addressed through formal action plans.
* Configuration Management: Action plans can address overall configurations that need to be changed to secure systems, devices, ports, etc., from potentially dangerous sources.
* Patching: Action plans can include systems that need to be addressed. Patching can also cause additional issues that may need to be addressed via an action plan.
* Compensating Controls: If patches cannot be implemented or do not exist, additional controls (e.g., segmentation, isolation, etc.) may be implemented to better secure the affected device.
  * The goal for a Compensating Control is to implement security as effectively as the patch or control that was unable to be implemented.
* Awareness, Education, and Training: Ongoing awareness and training efforts need to be mandatory to not expose systems to critical human vulnerabilities that could occur.
* Changing Business Requirement: The needs and requirements of the organization will change over time, and the organization's security management needs to adapt as needed.
* Vulnerability Management Metrics and KPIs: These are needed to understand the organization's vulnerability management systems and operate effectively:
  * Trends: Commonly include the number of vulnerabilities, risk rankings, time to remediate, and recurrence.
  * Top 10 Lists: Can help identify the biggest threats and most critical things to look out for in the environment.
  * Critical Vulnerabilities: Vulnerabilities that are most likely to be exploited and need to be addressed first.
  * Zero-days: Vulnerabilities that have just been discovered, before they have a solution allowing them to be patched.
  * Service Level Objectives (SLOs): Specific metrics like time to remediate that the organization needs to be able to track.
* Inhibitors to Remediation: While the organization usually knows what needs to be addressed, some things can slow down the remediation efforts, including:
  * Memorandums of Understanding (MOU): Performance or uptime targets/agreements that need to be met, and may not be met if taken offline to be patched.
  * Service Level Agreements (SLA): terms that influence performance targets and can delay patching to ensure uptime and other metrics are met.
  * Organizational Governance: An organization's validation process can slow down the overall patching processes.
  * Business Process Interruption: Can be slowed down or saved for a later time to not affect the overall functioning of the business.
  * Degrading Functionality: Some patches may degrade the functionality of the systems that they protect. This may cause systems to fail.
  * Legacy Systems: Older systems may not have patches available, meaning that compensating controls are the only options that an organization has.
  * Proprietary Systems: May not have patches available or have specific systems requirements that do not include the patches/upgrades to the systems that are used.
 
### Incident Response Reporting and Communication: 
* Stakeholder Communication and Identification: Ensuring that the proper parties have the appropriate contacts in the case of an emergency.
* Declaration and Escalation: There is a designated, documented process for starting the incident response process, including:
  * Indicators of Compromise (IoCs) that lead the organization to investigate the processes in place.
  * Incident responders determine if this incident is a false positive.
  * An incident is declared, and the IR procedures begin, followed by containment, eradication, and recovery stages.
* Incident Communications: Processes should contain the requirements for communication in the case of an incident, including the following external individuals:
  * Legal counsel
  * Public relations
  * Customer Communications
  * Media
* Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastruc-ture Act of 2022 (CIRCIA): requires reporting cyber incidents within 72 hours that are "likely to result in demonstrable harm to the national security interests, foreign relations, or economy of the United States or to the public confidence, civil liberties, or public health and safety of the people of the United States."
  * Law enforcement: The organization should also determine when to include law enforcement in the operations. 
* Root Cause Analysis: A process to determine what happened, and helps with the recovery and understanding processes, and includes the following steps:
  * Identify the problems and events that occurred as part of the incident.
  * Establish a timeline of events. Differentiate between the events and the causal factors.
  * Document the root cause analysis.
* Lessons Learn: An exercise and analysis that reflects on what happened and what can be done to prevent the issue from happening in the future.
* Incident Response Metrics and KPIs: Should be included on incident response reports, but also ongoing security reporting, including:
  * Mean time to detect: How long is it taking to detect a security incident after it occurs?
  * Mean time to respond: How long is it taking to respond to a security incident after it is detected?
  * Mean time to remediate: The time taken to fix the security incident. This can depend a lot on the types and size of the vulnerability being remediated.
    * _This is not in the book, but from my own experience, this is split up into high, medium, and low, where highs are quick and lows are slower because they are less important to fix quickly._
  * Alert Volume: This is used to determine if alerts are properly configured, or if they happen too often/not enough.
* Incident Response Reporting: This helps organizations to communicate about incidents and is a means of ensuring consistency in the response, analysis, and tracking over time. These usually include:
  *  An executive summary: a short, clean explanation of the incident, the impact, and the current state or resolution.
  *  Who, What, When, Where, and Why
  *  A timeline of the events captured and methods that were used in the attack.
  *  Impact Assessment: What was the impact of the incident on the organization?
  *  Scope: Systems, services, and other elements that were affected.
  *  Evidence Gathered: The evidence that was gathered as part of the incident. 


## Section Goals:
1. Understand vulnerability management reporting.
2. Explain vulnerability management metrics and KPIs.
3. Describe inhibitors to remediation.
4. Understand critical stakeholders for incident response.
5. List critical items for incident response reports.
6. Describe incident response metrics and KPIs.


## Related Labs:
&ensp; 12.1 Vulnerability Management Reporting </br>
&ensp; 12.2 Review a Public Incident Report </br>
&ensp; 12.3 Incident Reporting </br>
