# 13. Forensic Analysis and Techniques for Incident Response.md

### Building Forensics Capability
* Building a toolkit is required to be able to show the process of what happened to the necessary individuals (e.g., auditors, courts, or managers).
* The toolkit should be specific to the organization and include a laptop, desktop, or server.
* Common forensics toolkits include:
  * digital forensics workstation: A device with the necessary tools already on it, with a lot of processing and storage capability.
  * Forensic Investigation Suite: FTK, EnCase, SANS Investigative Forensics Kit (SIFT), or The Sleuth Kit (TSK) to capture and perform forensics.
  * Forensics drive duplicators: Designed to copy hard drives for forensic investigations/analysis.
  * Wiped Drives and Removable Media to handle any drive or media that might be encountered for capturing and transporting forensic data.
  * Cables and Drive Adaptors: Allow connection to the devices that are going to be encountered.
  * Camera: Document systems configurations, labels, and other data.
  * Labeling and Documenting Tools: Label makers, pens, and other cataloging tools
  * Notebooks and prepared documentation: Something for physical note-taking and writing down what's happening and by whom.
 
### Understanding Forensic Software: 
* Capabilities and Application: Key forensic tool capabilities include imaging, analysis, hashing and validation, process and memory dump analysis, password cracking, and log viewers.
* Imaging Media: The first step is creating copies of the media or disks that may contain data useful for the investigation, including source  drives, volumes, partitions, or device images.
* Analysis Utilities: These utilities may offer insight into what happened, including:
  * Timelines of systems changes
  * Validation tools for checking the software against its known version
  * Filesystem analysis capabilities
  * File carving tools for recovery without the filesystem available
  * Windows Registry analysis
  * Log File parsing review
* Carving: When data is recovered, the initial file system may no longer be intact. File carving tools look for data on a block-by-block basis, looking for headers or other important file structures.
  * Header- and footer-based carvings: Information that notes the start and end of a file
  * Content-based carving: Looking for the content of files through character counts or text recognition
  * File structure-based carving: Looking for data specific to remaining file structures.
* Chain of Custody Tracking: Document maintaining who had access to a specific item of evidence, and when.
* Hashing and Validation: Using hashing, it can be confirmed that the evidence collected has not changed since its collection.
  * Formats include EnCase's EO1 formal or MD5, SHA1, or SHA2. MD5 is faster, so more common on larger systems and specific files.
 
### Conducting Endpoint Forensics:
* Operating System, Process, and Memory Dump Analysis: Important to forensics investigations and investigations of malware infections or compromise. 
  * Live memory capture helps recover decryption keys and full-disk encryption products like BitLocker.
* Memory Forensics: requires either running live forensic analysis on a running machine or making a copy of live memory to point in time forensic memory analysis.
  * Tools include Volatility, which has plug-in commands, the ability to detect API hooks, read the keyboard buffer, grab the Windows clipboard, look for live TCP connections, scan for driver objects, etc.
* Mobile Device and Cell Phone Forensics: Commercial suites or standalone tools that have decryption or brute-forcing capabilities to get data from locked devices.
* Password Crackers and Password Recovery: Useful for discovering password protections beyond the operating system or account level and include Microsoft Office files, PDFs, ZIP, and RAR compressed files.
* Cryptography Tools: Useful to make sure that sensitive data under forensic investigation is not breached and the environment is not compromised.
  * Encryption tools are needed for encrypted drives and network protocols.
* Log Viewers: Tools that can match log data to other forensic events.

### Network Forensics:
* Tools like Wireshark are open-source protocol analyzers (or packet sniffers) that allow the capturing of network data and review via a GUI.
* Tcpdump is another packet capture software that can watch network traffic for DNS traffic.

### Cloud, Virtual, and Container Forensics: 
* Cloud investigations are more complicated with shared tenant models and require the cloud service provider to participate in the investigation.
  * Items like chain-of-cosody, preserving data, and others are harder in cloud environments.
  * Consider determining:
    * What the contract says about investigations
    * What legal recourse is allowed with the vendor
    * The information needed, and if that's available through your controls
    * Create a vendor course of action if you don't control the data.
* Virtualization Forensics: Virtual systems can be copied and moved to secure environments for analysis. 
  * Containers are more and more common, and can cause unique issues.
    * Many organizations have processes to remove or delete containers if something goes wrong, which makes it hard for forensic efforts.
    * Containers can be easily moved or brought online and offline, making access more challenging and opening up more ability for vulnerability.
   
### Post-Incident Activity and Evidence Acquisition:
* Forensic Analysis: The investigation should be performed across systems and tools to allow for a root cause analysis to be performed.
* Forensic Procedures: A basic process that is taken for forensic analysis, which should contain the following steps:
  * Determine what you're trying to find out
  * Outline the locations and data that are needed to help understand the figure out what you need to figure it out.
  * Document and review the plan
  * Acquire and preserve the evidence
  * Perform initial analysis on the evidence
  * Use the analysis to guide further work
  * Report on the findings of the investigation
* Additionally, perform the investigation based on the order of volatility of common storage locations:
  * CPU cache, registers, running processes and RAM, then Network Traffic, then Disk Drives, and last Backups, printouts, and optical media.
  * Instead of performing analysis on the data themselves, the data should be copied, hashed (to ensure it's the same), and analysis should be performed on the copies for legal capture and to prevent change on the originals 
* Linux `dd` utility can be used to create a bit-by-bit copy of drives in the `RAW` format.
  * Block size is set using the `bs` flag.
  * `if` sets an input file (e.g., `if /dev/disk/sda1`)
  * `of` sets the output file (e.g., `of /nmt/usb`)
  * Be sure to document the chain of custody for the evidence.
* Handling Encrypted Drives: Encryption makes reviewing drives more challenging. Live imaging can help solve this, but it can also be complicated to use and review.
* Write Blockers: Prevent the data on the drive or device from being changed after being put there. This can compromise the integrity of the evidence if the data is changed.
* Validating Data Integrity: Built-in data integrity software and help determin that the data on a specific drive or device is still secure and unchanged.
* Imaging live systems may need to be performed if there is disk encryption on the device that needs to be imaged.
* Reimaging systems is performed after the systems are copied and involves overwriting the data on the system and starting from a secure image or from the setup process.
* Collecting log data is needed, and can often be stored remotely and later correlated with a security incident. To preserve and analyze logs:
  * Determine where the logs reside and what format they are stored in.
  * Determine the time period that you need to preserve.
  * Work with system or device administrators to obtain a copy of the logs and document how the logs were obtained.
  * Identify items of interest.
  * Use log analysis tools like Splunk, Sawmill, Event Log Analyzer, or even a text editor to search and review the logs.
* Viewing USB Device History: 4Discovery's USB Hub Historian can help review the history and data that were stored on a USB drive.
* Capturing Memory-resident Data: Capturing the data that's in memory before the device is shut down or turned off. There are tools for this, including:
  * fmem and LiME, Linux kernel modules that allow access to physical memory.
    * fmem is designed to be used with dd or similar tools;
    * LiME directly copies data to a designated path and file.
  * Dumplt, a Windows memory capture tool that copies a system's physical memory to the Dumplt program folder
  * The Volatility Framework: supports Windows, Linux, and macOS, and has tools to extract encryption keys and passphrases, user activity analysis, and rootkit analysis.
  * EnCase and FTK: have built-in memory capture and analysis capabilities.
* Core Dumps and Hibernation Files: Contains information that may not be accessible on the drive or contained in the live system memory. 
  * Access via `Control Panel > System And Security > System > Advanced System Settings > Startup And Recovery > Settings` or in the system root directory `%SystemRoot%\MEMORY.DMP`.
* Mobile Devices: Fire starts with disabling the device's network connectivity, but then collects data through:
  * Physical acquisition, through the SIM card, memory cards, or backups
  * Logical acquisition: requires a forensic tool to create an image of the device volumes
  * Manual access: reviewing the contents of the live, unlocked phone and taking pictures and notes
  * Filesystem review: provides details of deleted files, existing files, and directories.


## Section Goals:
1. Explain evidence acquisition tools, processes, and procedures.
2. Be familiar with what's involved in a forensic investigation.
3. Describe post-incident activity


## Related Labs:
&ensp; 13.1 Create a disk image </br>
&ensp; 13.2 Conduct the NIST Rhino Hunt </br>
&ensp; 13.3 Identify Security Tools </br>
&ensp; 1.4 Recognize Security Tools </br>
