## Intro to Cybersecurity
### 1.1 Security Overview


* Security: The protection against danger, damage, loss, and criminal activity. 
* Cybersecurity: The ability to protect or defend the use of cyberspace from cyber attacks.
* Physical Security: all hardware and software to protect data
* Users/Admin: People who protect the software
* Policies: Rules used to protect info.
* Risk: Likelihood of a threat taking place
* Risk Management: Identifying risk and lowering it to a good level.
* Asset: Something that has value
* Threat: Something that can cause loss of an asset.
* Threat Actor: The person who tries to carry out the threat.
  * Internal: A threat from inside the company or organization
  * External: A threat from outside the company or org
  * Different levels of resources or funding
  * Different reasons for attacking or motive.
* Threat Actor Types
  * Script Kiddies: People who get scripts online and don't have much experience.
  * Hacktivists: Hacking for a purpose or to cause a point.
  * Criminal syndicates: Groups of organized crime involving hacking
  * Advanced Persistent threats: Threats that continue for time periods and are usually well funded.
  * State Actors: Trying to hack a country to gain info/power/something. 
* Vulnerability: An opening or weakness in a system
  * Zero-day: Something brand new and has not been seen before
  * Weak Configurations: Not-intentional threats that could let a hacker enter and gain control.
  * Improper or weak patch: A patch could harm a system or could not be used correctly and introduce vulnerability.
  * Legacy Platforms: Older platforms are not always able to be prepared for current hacks and older devices could compromise an entire network.
  * Shadow IT: non-IT members may do something that IT should do, not do it properly or securely, and introduce weakness into a system.
* Exploit: An action that takes advantage of a vulnerability.
* Impact: The level of harm that occurs when a threat exploits a vulnerability.
* CIA Triad
  * Confidentiality: Ensures that unauthorized users are not able to gain access to items they are not supposed to.
  * Integrity: Ensures that there were no unauthorized changes to the information/systems/anything provided.
  * Availability: Ensures that the systems are ready for the real users and that information is available.
* Security Incident: Something that compromises the CIA Triad.
* Non-Repudiation: Making sure that the source of the data is the expected source and not from somewhere else.

### 1.2 Defense Planning


* Layered Security: Multiple levels of security controls to create a larger effect.
* Seven Level Security Model:
  1. Data: Storing data properly and making sure data is transmitted securely. 
  2. Application: Authentication and authorization, user management, group policies, and web app security.
  3. Host: Log management, OS hardening, patch implementation, and password attack prevention are all applied to every device. 
  5. Network: Installation and configuration of switches, routers, use of VLANs, pen testing is done, and virtualization.
  6. Perimeter: Firewalls using ACLs and securing the wireless network.
  7. Physical: Fences, doors, locks, server cages, motion detectors, and environmental controls.
  8. Policies, Procedures, and Awareness: Makes sure that the users know what appropriate use is and what they can and cannot do.
 
* User education:
  * Users are the primary targets
  * They need to know attack strategies
  * Identify internal threats
  * Comply with the security policies
 
* Countermeasure: A way to mitigate a risk.
