## Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities
### 2.1 Understanding Attacks

* Internal Threat: A threat from authorized users who exploit assigned privileges from inside to carry out an attack.
* External Threat: A threat that is from people outside the organization and attempt to gain unauthorized access.
* Persistent threat: A threat that seeks to gain access to a network and remains undetected.
* Non-persistent threat: A threat that focuses on getting into a system and stealing information. This is usually a one-time event and the attacker is not worried about detection.
* Open-source intelligence (OSINT): Information that is readily available to the public.
* Targeted attack: An attack that is carried out against a specific organization purposefully and for a reason.
* Opportunistic Attack: An attack that is made because quicky and with minimal effort. Usually makes the threat actor money.
* Hackers: Any threat agent who uses knowledge to bypass security, exploit a vulnerability, or gain access to privileged information.
  * White Hat: Uses hacking skills for defensive purposes only.Only access systems with explicit permission.
  * Gray Hat: Between Black and White hat, good intentions but might not act legally or ethically.
  * Black Hat: A bad actor who uses knowledge for bad purposes.
  * Elite: Hackers able to find and exploit a vulnerability before anyone else. (Uncommon)
  * Blue: Hacker that attempts to hack into the network with the permission of a company, but not an employee of the company.
* Threat Actors:
  * Skript Kiddies: Attackers that use automated tools and don't do much to any programming themselves.
  * Hacktivists: Hackers driven by a cause - social change, political agendas, or terrorism.
  * Cybercriminal: Subcategory of hackers willing to take more risks and be more extreme.
  * Nation State: A government entity that is attacking a target with a lot of resources.
  * Insider: A threat agent that is in an organization and intentionally or unintentionally carries out an attack.
  * Competitor: A threat working for a competing organization that may carry out a threat.
  * Shadow IT: A where users implement IT solutions not approved by an organization.


### 2.2 Malware
* Malware: Software designed to take over/damage a device without the users approval.
  * Ransomware: Malware that denies access unless a payment is made.
  * Trojan: Malicious program pretending to be legitimate.
  * Remote Access Trojan (RAT): Malware that includes a back door to allow a hacker to control the computer.
  *  Worms: A self-replicating malicious program.
  *  Rootkits: Set of hidden at the administrator level allowing access to a computer. Hard to find/address.
  *  Backdoors: Methods of providing access other than the normal method of authentication.
  *  Botsnet: A group of zombie computers that are commanded from a central controller.
  *  Zombie: A computer that is infected with malware and is controlled by a zombie-master. Also known as C&C (command and control).
  *  Keyloggers: Programs that capture keystrokes, mouse movement, touchscreen touches, device swipes, and/or other inputs from the user.
  *  Logic Bombs: Malware designed to go off under specific conditions. Dorment until conditions are met.
  *  Virus: A program attempts to damage the computer and replicate itself on other systems.
    * Memory residents
    * Non-memory resident
    * Boot sector
    * Macro
    * Email
  * Fileless Virus: Use legitimate programs to infect a computer.
  * Spyware: Software installed without the user's knowledge or consent and is designed to intercept or take control of a device.
  * Potentially Unwanted Program (PUP): software that contains  adware, install toolbars, or has other objectives.
  * Malicious code: Scripts that are created and run that can harm a device.
 * Crimeware: Malware for identity theft. Allows for access to online financial accounts or services.
 * Adware: Malware that monitors preferences and sends ads that match preferences.
 * Scareware: Scam tool to fool the user into thinking they have malware on the system.
 * Cracker: A person who develops or distributes malware.
 * Adversarial AI: A field where AI is used for malicious purposes.
 * Malware presentation:
   * Update browser
   * Install patches
   * Antivirus
   * Anti-rootkit
   * Anti-spyware
   * Firewalls
   * Pop-up blockers
   * Regular Scans
   * User Training
 * Malware recovery:
   * Re-install applications, features, or OS
   * Re-image a machine
   * Remediation
   * Repair the infection
   * Quarintine the file
   * Delete the file
### 2.3 Social Engineering
* 
 
