# Physical Security
## 3.1 Physical Threats:
* Barriers: Prevent the entry into a specific location. Can direct/stop the flow of traffic.
  * Fences: Tall walls to keep people out.
  * Barricades: Items that can be fixed or movable to prevent someone from accessing a specific location. 
  * Bollards: Retractable poles that prevent a vehicle from going in a specific location.
* Signs: Something notifying the user they are in a secure area to deter them from unwanted actions. 
* Guard Dogs: Expensive but effective way of keeping unwanted visitors away.
* Robot sentries:  Can be fixed or mobile. Denture bad actions and provide communication. 
* Proper Lighting: If something is well-lit, it is harder to do something unseen.
* Security guards can monitor the full location and secure a facility but can also be costly and need training.
* Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV): A camera can help with monitoring and can be used for investigations later on.
  * Bullet camera: Long and round with a build-in lens - indoor or outdoor options
  * Dome Camera: Camera with a plastic or glass dome.
  * Pan tilt zoom camera: Allows movement and manipulation of the camera as needed.
  * Infrared: Heat-sensitive cameras.
  * Drones: Drones can patrol the area and monitor for activity. 
* Man Trap: Location between two doors where an unwanted person can be detained/trapped if needed.
* Turnstyle: Make sure only people with authentication can access the area behind the turnstyle. Similar to a mantrap.
* Door Locks: Only allow people with proper access to enter an area.
  * Pick-resistant locks to prevent access.
  * Keypad locks to know a combination instead of having a key/pickable lock.
  * Smart cards to badge into a specific location. Short-range option.
  * Proximity cards to allow entry within a specific location. Medium range option.
  * Biometric lock: use iris or fingerprint scans to ensure the user is validated before entry.
  * Cable locks: Cables that connect hardware to the table or something to make sure it cannot leave that location.
* Physical Access Logs: Make sure that users sign in with the time and reason for entry saved.
* Reception: Can make sure that guests sign in and are there for a specific reason/use.
* Two-Person Integrity (TPI): Something that must be done with two people to make sure that things are done properly. Useful for more sensitive items. 
* Defense in Depth: Adding up several different types of security to make something more secure with all the layers helping to prevent security issues.

* Data destruction: Data that is not in use should be destroyed.
  * Buring: Documents are burnt.
  * Shredding: Documents are cut up to prevent reading. Cross-cut is more secure.
  * Pulping: Paper is soaked in a solution until slurry, then can be dried and recycled.
  * Pulverizing: Storage media fed into a machine to destroy the device.
  * Degaussing: Current over a device for some time will make the data unreadable. Eraces low-level formatting.
  * Purging/Sanitizing Data: Removes any remnants of the data.
  * Whiping: Deleting data and then overwriting it to make it fully gone.
  * Specific methods for data wiping standards. Different amounts of passes being overwritten mean the data is more likly to be gone. 

## 3.2 Device and Network Protection
* Locked Network Closet: Networking devices are locked away in a networking closet to make sure that only authorized people are allowed in the networking room.
* Vault: In addition to being locked in a room, networking devices or other devices can be locked up to prevent them from being stolen.
* Faraday cage: Cages that block electronic emissions from eavesdropping. Collecting electronic emissions is known as Van Eck phreaking.
* Protected Cable Distribution: Networking cables are kept secure and not in a way that could be easily tapped into between the networking device and computer.
* Malicious USB (Universal Serial Bus): USB chords are not always secure and could be part of a keylogger or some other way of gaining data.
* USB data blockers: Device that makes sure when power is going to the device, that no data is also being taken from the device. 
* Malicious flash drive: Flash drives that are found can hold viruses or other dangerous elements and should not be put into a computer.
* Card cloning: The process of making a copy of a card. Cards can be copied if lost or misplaced, allowing unwanted access to an organization.
* Skimming: Scanning the credentials of a card when in use and storing these to be used later. Works with proximity cards.
* Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) or Screened Subnet: Provide security by letting the publically accessible part of the network be separated from the rest of the network. Then firewalls go before and after the DMZ.
* Air gap: A method that isolates a network from the internet to prevent infection from the internet. Can only be accessed on-site/in-person.
* Protected Distribution System (DPS): Secure wiring in a more secure conduit to prevent wiretapping and access to the wires. Sealed or encased in concrete.
* Allarmed carrier: Monitors DSP for acoustic vibrations caused by gaining access to sealed-off wires and alleviates the need for common visual checking of physical security. 

## 3.3 Enviormental Controls
* Electro-magnetic interference: Noice between hot ware and the ground wires that can disrupt the signal of the cables. Causes: motors, machinery, lights, electrical systems
* Cooling systems: Computers and servers function best at 67 degrees F. Server rooms have a lot of sensors for protection and identifying hot spots.
* HVAC: Cooling method to make sure that the server rooms are kept at the desired temperature.
* Humidity sensors: Humidity should be 40 - 65%.
* Automatic shut-offs for the server room to help stop issues.
* Hot and cold isles for proper ventilation - cold air starts in the cool aisle, goes through the servers heating up, and gets expelled into the hot isles.
* Automatic doors for security and a 1.5 ft high raised floor in case of flooding and for air moving.
* Fans: cool and circulate air. Air should cycle 20-30 times an hour. (Office is about 2x.)
* Power conditions: changes in power levels could harm the devices.
  * Surge: The sudden rise in voltage.
  * Sag or Dip: the reduction in voltage for a few seconds.
  * Brownout: The reduction in voltage for more than a few seconds.
  * Blackout: A complete power failure.
  * Fault: Momentary power outage
  * Transient: Fluctuation caused by line noise or disturbances.
* Surge protectors: Protects devices from gaining too much power when a surge happens.
* Uninterrupted Power Supplies (UPS): Continues supplying power if there is a short brown/blackout.
* Redundant Power Supply: (Generators) Keeps the devices running if there is an issue getting power to the facility. 
* Line connectors: Removes white noise and temporarily regulates the voltage.
* Water and Gas should have a master shut-off valve and users should know their location, and secure from general access.
* Fire Suppression:
  * Fixed: Attached to the ceiling or somewhere to stop a fire.
  * Portable: This can be picked up and used by a user to help suppress a fire.
  * Class	- Fuel Type	- Suppressant Type
  * Class A	- Wood, paper, cloth, plastics	- Water or soda acid
  * Class B	- Petroleum, oil, solvent, alcohol	- CO2 or FM200
  * Class C	- Electrical equipment, circuits, wires	- Halon or CO2
  * Class D	- Sodium, potassium	- Dry powders
  * Class K	- Oil, solvents, electrical wires	- Halon, CO2, or soda acid
  * Education is key to proper response. Additionally, human life is more important than all equipment saving measures. 
