# Devices and Infrastructure
## 5.1 Security Appliances

* Proxy Servers: Accepts and forwards requests, can filter or modify traffic/cache data, and restrict IP address restrictions
  * Forward Proxies: Accept requests from client servers and forward them to servers
  * Reverse Proxies: Placed between servers and clients and help load balancing and cache contents.
  * Transparent Proxies: Between user and internet, used for redirecting requests without changing the request and can be used for web filters.
* Content/URL Filters: Devices/software that allow or block network traffic based on rules.
  * Simple Rules: URLs, Domains, categories, or hosts
  * Complex rules: Pattern matching, IP reputation, other advanced features
  * Allow/Deny Lists: Can have rules on content for specific users and can be a list of firewalls or other appliances.
* Network Access Controls: Determines if a device should be able to connect to a network.
  * Agent-Based: Software on a device to perform security checks
  * Agentless: One that runs on a browser or somewhere where installation is not needed (IoT devices)
  * 802.1x: NAC security standard
* All-in-one Appliance: Contain antimalware, filtering, VPN, DLP, security monitoring, and logging
* Unified Threat Management (UTM): A group of features combined into one device working at one device within a network.
* New Generation Firewall (NGFW): Firewalls that include many scanning capabilities, similar to an All-In-One Appliance
* Application-Aware Devices: Devices that manage network traffic based on protocol from Application layers
* Quality of Service (QoS): Can prioritize specific things to ensure the main purpose is always met.
  * QoS Protcols: 802.11E and 802.1Q
* Security Zones/Network Segmentation: Parts of the network have specific  security requirements and are separated by routers, VLANs, and firewalls.
* East-West: Lateral movement within a zone (servers, web servers, or application servers)
* Zero-Trust: All elements in a zone and network are segmented and need validation. No assumptions on zones, but with valid users, devices, and application identities.
* Intranet: Internal networks to provide info to employees and other members and are usually protected from outside access.
* Extranet: Network for external connections by partners or customers
* Internet: Network that includes publicly available servers
* Security Zoness:
  * Wireless: Zone for wireless users to access the internet
  * Demilitarized Zone (DMZ): Network zone that is exposed to least trusted areas like the internet - Good for web servers and other Internet-facing devices & configured with firewalls
  * Guest: A guest network should be separate from other networks and regulate access.
  * Honeynet: A network designed to catch potential hackers (entrapment is illegal so this is designed to monitor and prevent issues)
  * Ad Hoc: Decentralized network that allowed connections without a base station or router. (Computer direct to computer)
* Network address translation (NAT): Takes private address and converts it to 1+ public IP addresses (expensive)
* NAT Gateway: Device that protects the gateway and chooses who/what can enter.
* Honeypot: Systems that appear vulnerable but contain many monitoring systems
* Honeynets: Networks set up to collect information about network attacks (a group of honey pots)
* HoneyFile: An attractive file, containing detectable and unique data left in an area likely to be accessed.
* Fake Telemetry: Providing fake telemetry data to mislead attackers and allow access detection.
* DNS Sinkholes: DNS server configurations to give incorrect answers to DNS queries and allow users to access harmless/traceable data




## 5.2 DMZ/Screened Subnet
* Demilitarized Zone (DMZ): A buffer network between private and unsecured networks (like the Internet).
* Bastion/Sacrificial Host: A device exposed to an attack and has been hardened to attacks.
* Screening Router: Router closest to the internet from the internal network.
* Dual-homed gateway: A firewall device, typically with three network interfaces: Internet connecting, public subnet connecting, and private subnet connecting.
* Screened Host Gateway: A device in the DMZ requiring users to authenticate to access DMZ resources.
* Screened Subnet: A subnet protected with two firewalls --> internet - external firewall - internal firewall - private network
  * Screened Subnet Typical Contents: Web, mail, and FTP servers




## 5.3 Firewalls
* Firewalls: Contol and monitor access by blocking services except those allowed by admin. (Rules can be general or specific).
* Firewall typical features: 
  * Packet filtering: The firewall analyses each network packet going in/out of the network. Filters dangerous/damaged packets and spoofed IP addresses based on admin rules.
  * Stateful Inspection: Ensures the firewall maintains a record of the connections as they pass through and monitors the state from beginning to end of the connection.
    * Analyzes the state of the entire connection
    * Known as a circuit-level proxy/gateway.
  * Stateless Inspection: Does not maintain a recode ad and uses an access control list (ACL) to allow/deny traffic.
  * Access Control Lists: List that includes packet origin, destination, protocol, TCP/IP port, and if allowed or denied.
    * Firewalls can detect changes in service connections and changes to the usual connection modes.
  * Network Access Translation (NAT): Maps the IP address source of outbound connections to the firewall's address. (Hides network in one single IP address).
  * Software: Host-based, installed on the host, protects one device.
  * Hardware: Appliance or network-based,  dedicated devices, that protect all network parts.
  * Virtual: Bridge mode or hypervisor mode, good for monitoring virtual environments.
  * Open-source or proprietary
  * Web Application Firewalls (WAF): monitor HTTP traffic for web attacks (XSS, SQL injections, and XSRF/CSRF)
  * Content Filtering: Filter outbound content for DLP and compliance.
  * URL Filtering: Filters specific URLs
  * UTM: All-in-one firewalls, IDS load balancer, DLP Spam, malware filter...
  * Next-Gen Firewalls (NGFW): Traditional featured plus NIDS/NIPS, app awareness, and threat intelligence
  * Config settings: Well-planed, change default settings, don't be too restrictive/lenient, and adjust settings as needed.
 

## 5.4 NAT
* Network Address Translation (NAT): A method used by routers to translate grouped private IP addresses into a single registered address.
* Internal network: The private network with devices using private IP addresses for internal communication.
* Internal Addresses: Private IP address translated to an external IP address.
* External Network: The NAT devices connect to the public network with a single public IP address.
* External address: The Public IP address the NAT uses to communicate with external networks.
* Port Address Translation (PAT): A NAT extension that connects port numbers with private hosts.
  * NAT Benefits: Public IPs don't need to be purchased for every device (rare)
  * Hides internal devices from the external network.
* Class A: 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255
* Class B: 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255
* Class C: 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255
* Static: Uses a single public IP address
* Dynamic: Uses multiple Public IP addresses
* NAT vs Forward Proxy: Forward Proxy is Layer 7, NAT is Layer 4

## 5.5 VPNs
* Virtual Private Network: Ways to create a virtual network link across an unsecured network as if they were on the same network.
  * Allows for host-host, site-site, or remote-access connections
  * VPNs are usually encrypted but do not have to be encrypted
  * IPSec VPNs:
    * Layer: 3
    * Tunnel mode: The entire thing is encrypted.
    * Transport mode: Just the payload is encrypted.
    * Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP): An older encryption tunneling protocol developed by Microsoft.
    * Layer 2 Forwarding (L2F): Tunneling by Cisco to develop VPN connections over the internet.
    * Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP): An open standard for secure multi-protocol routing.
    * Encapsulating Secure Payload (ESP): Provides confidentiality with optional integrity checks
  * TLS(/SSL older verion) VPNs:
    * Modes: Portal-based (using HTML5) or Tunnel Mode
    * Secure Sockets Layer (SSL): Protocol to secure modes like HTTP and FTP
    * Transport Layer Security (TLS): Protocol off of SSL, providing privacy and integrity through the VPN.
  *  Many VPNs are set up with MFA w/ software or a hardware token

## 5.6 Web Threat Protection
* Web/URL Filers: A content filter that prevents users from accessing specific content or URLs
* Web Threat Filter: A filter that prevents users from accessing malicious websites.
* Spam: Erelivent/unwanted content sent to many recipients
* Spam Filter: Gateway email spam filter that prevents spam emails from accessing the network, email, or computers.
* Anti-phishing software: Software that scans email contents and removes phishing attempts
* Virus Scanners: Scan emails or traffic to remove infected content
* Proxies: Prevents web threats
  * Transparent: Redirects requests and used for web filtering
  * Forward: Filter web content and mask a user's identity
  * Reverse: Used for cashing and authentication.
* Common threats: Mass emails, bad links, nefarious websites
* Web protection devices: Proxies, All-in-one networking devices (hardware), DMZ/internal network

## 5.7 NAC (Network Access/Admission Controls)
* Network Access/Admission Controls (NAC): A set of policies that define requirements for each device to meet before connecting to the network.
* NAC can include: Anti-virus installation and up-to-date, OS and patches used, Applications, helathchecks
* NAC is not a product.
* Bring Your Own Device (BYOD): Employees can use a personal device and connect to the network to accomplish work.
* Remediation Zone: The device is placed in a secure zone until requirements are met
* Mobile Device Management (MDM): Management tools that allow the control of mobile devices. (Good messaging, Mobile Iron, Airwatch).
* NAC implementation Types:
  * Permanent Agent: Exists on a host device and continuously runs.
  * Dissolvable Agent: Run from a portal, and disappears after use.
  * Agentless: Part of Active Directory and runs ensuring the user complies with policies. Good for IoT
* NAC Implementation process: Plan, Define, Apply, Review, (repeat)


## 5.8 Network Threats
* Network Attack Types:
  * Active: Threat actors attempt to compromise a system. (Prot scanning, trying to hack the network)
  * Passive: Threat actors gather information without harming the day-to-day functions. (Scanning for data online about the org)
  * External: The threat is from outside the organization
  * Internal: The threat is from the inside of the organization
* Network Map: A physical and logical network diagram that has all assets, and contains a network baseline allowing to scan for potential vulnerabilities.
* Focus Points for Threats: Entry points, inherent vulnerabilities, documentation, network baseline
  * User Education/Training: Teach the users of the network company policies and good practices.
  * Network segmentation for different security needs abilities.
  * VLANs for network segmentation


## 5.9 Network Device Vulnerabilities
* Misconfigured Devices: Increases attack surfaces with firewalls, ani-spam/malware, and wireless access points. 
* Weak Security: Remove default credentials, use SHA2, AES, WPA2/3, TLS, SNMPv3
* Updates: Use patches to fix security issues and check for newer security protocols
* Credential Management: Use unique credentials, prevent backdoors, and privilege escalation (with principals of least privilege and role-based permissions) 
* Physical Access: lets attackers change passwords or inject vulnerabilities. Use alarms and secure the equipment access. 
* Known & Unknown Vulnerabilities: Zero-day vulnerabilities can be exploited, installing patches and updating helps protect against this.
* NIST: National Database of all vulnerabilities. 
* CVSS scoring: A way to list a numerical score to a threat.
* Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs): A repository by MITRE keeping track of vulnerabilities.


## 5.10 Network Applications:
* Peer-to-peer (P2P) Software: Software that allows users to share content without a central server's control.
  * Breaks a file up between devices, can send malicious data from many sources. Block ports, install filters
* Instant Messaging: Real-time communication supporting file exchanges.
  * Have written policy on usage and use Group Policy to prevent installation. Block these ports and implement a network solution.
  * Application Control Solutions: Can block, whitelist, flag, or tarpit applications. Use application signatures.
  * Application Signatures: Use to identify specific applications from others
 
## 5.11 Switch Security and Attacks
* Content-addressable memory (CAM) table: A switch table containing MAC addresses and the corresponding port.
* Unmanaged Switch: No settings to configure "plug and run"
* Managed Switch: Configured with an interface, that supports VLANs, link aggregation, and security
  * Link aggregation: Combines multiple connections into one upstream device/switch
* Layer 2 Switch: Operates at Data Link Layer, understands MAC addresses, processes frames, and forwards to MAC addresses
* Layer 3 Switch: Understands IP addresses, processes and forwards packets, some IP-routing abilities, and can route between VLANs
* MAC flooding: Overload the switch's MAC table making it fail open, making the switch act like a hub.
* Switch Spoofing: Modify the MAC address using DTP.
* Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP): Unsecure protocol letting modify a switch configuration. (Turn this off unless where needed).
* Adress Resolution Protocol (ARP): associates a MAC address with an IP address.
* ARP Table: Table with these associations
* SRP Spoofing: An attack changing the MAC to IP association to reroute data.
<br /><br /><br />
* Virtual LAN (VLAN): A logical grouping of computers based on switch ports. Each non-trunking port can only be a part of one VLAN.
  * Trunk ports are used to connect switches together
  * Trunk ports are a member of all VLANs
* VLAN tagging: A tag is added and removed allowing the packet to move between switches on a network
* Broadcast Domains: a messaging separation between segments, each VLAN has one.
* MAC filtering/port security: Filter contact from a MAC address.
* Port Authentication: Uses 802.1x protocol to allow only authenticated devices.
* Spanning Tree Protocol: Runs on switches to make sure only one of any redundant branches connected is active at a time.
  * Adapts automatically, identifies the best path and finds loop-free paths.
* Best Practices: Change default credentials, enable SSH, disable Telnet, disable/configure SNMP, disable unused ports, add a banner, and use logging.
* Port Security: Limits devices per port, hardware connections, and violation consequences (not for a trunk port, EtherChannel, or Port Analyzer)
* Violation consequences: Drop frames, log entry, create alert, and/or disable the port.
* Additional Security: Physical, DHCP snooping, DAI.
  * Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) snooping: A feature on some switches to filter untrusted DHCP messages.
  * Dynamic ARP Inspection (DAI): A feature on some switches verifying switch has a valid IP to MAC binding

* Common Switch Attacks:
  * MAC flooding: Overload the switches MAC table to fail open, working like a hub
  * ARP Spoofing: The MAC address gets associated with the attacker's IP
  * VLAN Hopping: The source MAC address is changed on frames by the attacker. (One VLAN changed to another)
  * STP manipulation: The attacker pretends to be a root bridge by sending bridge ID frames. Takes advantage of STP
  * Double Tagging: Adds two VLAN tags to the header, causing it to jump from one VLAN to another
  * MAC Spoofing: Changes the header name in the frame.
  * VLAN Spoofing: Dynamic Trunk negotiation
  * STP Manipulation Solutions: Use a unique low BID, BPDU Guard, and root guard
    * Bridge ID (BID): 8-byte field that identifies a switch in a network
    * Bridge Protocol Data Units (BPDU) Guard: Prevents ports that shouldn't be sending BPDU messages from doing do
    * Root Guard: Enforces the root of a root bridge in a network and prevents downstream switches from becoming the root.
* Port Mirror: Sends a copy of traffic from one port to another port for monitoring.
* Switch Port ANalyzer (SPAN): Sends traffic from one OR MORE ports to another for monitoring.


## 5.12 Using VLANs
* Virtual LAN (VLAN): A logical collection of devices that belong together as if they were connected to the same wire or physical switch.
  * Use Layer 2
  * Logical connections, subdivides switches
  * Unicast: Traffic cast because of unknown MAC destination address 
  * Multicast: Allows to copy and deliver a message to multiple receivers
  * Broadcast: A specific domain in a VLAN that can not be crossed into another VLAN
* Port Types: Specific VLAN or Trunk Lines
* VLAN Advantages: Increased Performance (broadcasted packets), physical infrastructure flexibility, security by isolation
* Virtual eXtensible LAN (VXLAN): High scale segmentation (more than max of 4096 VLANs), and encapsulates entire ethernet frame in UDP packet.
* VXLAN framework: RFC7348
* VLAN Standard: 802.1Q


## 5.13 Router Security
* Router: Network device transmitting data from one network to another.
* Access Control List (ACL): Router filter that controls if packets are forwarded or dropped.
* SNMPv3: Protocol that manages network devices like routers and switches.
* Router Security: Change defaults, update, secure protocols, disable UPnP, configure remote access, install in a secure location, backup and encrypt config file.
* Standard ACL: filters by hostname or IP address & should be as close to the destination as possible
* Extended ACL: Filtered by IP protocol, source/destination socket number, destination hostname/IP, & should be as close to the destination as possible
  * Example `permit source 192.168.13.2 destination 10.1.5.25 tcp port 80`
* Routing Protocol: Used to determine the path to get to other networks
* Common Routing Protocols: BGP, RIP, OSPF, EIGRP
* Attack on Routers Result: MiTM attack, outages, loops, delays
