# Identity, Access, and Account Management
## 6.1 Access Control Models
* Access Control: the ability to permit/deny access to a resource.
* Access control policy: Defines the measures taken to control access to an object.
* Access Control Systems: Policies, procedures, and tech to control access to the object.
* Objects: Data, apps, systems, networks, and physical assets.
* Subject: Users, applications, or processes that need to access the objects.
* 3 Items needed before access: Identification, Authentication, and Authorization
  * Identification: The user needs to identify with the correct credentials to confirm identity.
  * Authentication: Makes sure that the user is the person that they claimed to be in identification.
  * Authorization: granting permission to an object, determining if the user should be able to access the resource.
* Two-factor authentication (TFA): combining two separate single-factor authentication types.
* Multifactor authentication (MFA): Combines all three single-factor types and is the strongest option
* Single-factor authentication types:
  * Something you are
  * Something you know
  * Something you have
* Accounting/Auditing: Logging a user's activities, resources, and behaviors for analysis and monitoring.
* AAA Server (Authentication, Authorization, Accounting): RADIUS or Diameter
* Access Control Best Practices: Principle of least privilege, implicit deny, MFA, need to know, separation of duties, job rotation, account management, defense in depth.
* Access Control Classifications: Preventative, Detective, Corrective, Deterrent, Recovery, Compensative
* Access Control Restriction types: Administrative, Technical, Physical
* Access Control Schemes:
  * Mandatory Access Control (MAC): Inflexible, rigid, and most secure. The OS, not the user, determines security and access. Need to know and level clearances.
  * Discretionary Access Control (DAC): Flexible: Dynamic, least secure. Let owners of data specify the user's access/use of data.
  * Role-Based Access Control (RBAC): Access based on groups/functions. Permission is given to all users of a specific role.
  * Rule-Based Access Control: Based on allow/deny lists. States what the user can/cannot do with an ACL.
  * Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC): Defines permissions based on attributes, and allows for more granularity with specific functions instead of giving access to everyone in that role.
  * Conditional Access: Rules stating assets, users, and levels of authentication required. Specific access rules are needed.
  * Privileged Access Management: Admin or root account w/ privileges to set up controls. Logged, audited, and multiple admins for accountability.
  * Filesystem permission: Permissions for a file or directory in a device OS.



## 6.2 Authentication
* Authentication Factors:
  * Something you know: Username, password, pin, something to remember
  * Something you have: ID, smartcard, key, something in your possession
  * Something you are: biometrics - something about you
* Authentication attributes:
  * Somewhere you are: Location-based
  * Something you can do: Unique gesture or pattern
  * Something you Exhibit: Unique trait or neurological pattern/Personality
  * Someone you know: Have someone trusted to validate who you are.
* Identity: a specific person or thing
* Identification: something that validates you are that person.
* Entity: an individual, process, host, service, or network.
* Identity Provider (IdP): creates, maintains, and manages identity info for an org
* IdPs framework: Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) to transfer data (frequently)
* Attributes: Items that can allow or disallow access to materials for a subject.
* Certificates: Electronic credentials required by PKI to securitly identify an individual based on public keys.
* Certificate Authority: A trusted part used to sign and issue certificates after identifying identity.
* Token: Software or hardware used to identify a user (usually with a username/password)
* SSH Keys: Lets a user log into a remote system's console securely using PKI
* ID Card: Provides photo validation to identify the owner.
* Smart Card: A card with a chip or strip that contains credentials.
* Directory Services: A repository of info about users and their resources.
* Lightweight Directory Acces Protocol (LDAP): a service protocol for directories (used in Active Directory (AD) w/ Microsoft and OpenLDAP w/ Linux)
* LDAP encryption: can be encrypted with SSL or TLS to make "LDAPS"
* Single Sign-On (SSO): The user is authenticated once for all network resources (set up in user accounts policy)
* Federation: Enterprise-wide identity that carries across the full enterprise - transitive trust
* Attestation: Tells the application the user is legitimate and has been certified (2-way attestation possible)
* OAuth: An auth framework to allow clients to gain access w/ allow or deny authorizations (components: user, client, resource server, auth server)
* OpenID Connect: OAuth 2.0 specifications allow user and client identity verification
* Shibboleth: Web-based and open-source use for SSO, network and internet auth with one credential for many sites, auth with SAML, used by university and public organizations.
* Kerberos: Network Auth used in AD implementations, using tickets and timestamps (to prevent replay attacks)
  * Kerberos Components: Key Distribution Center (KDC), Auth Service (AS), and Ticket-Granting Servier (TGS)
* Biometrics: use a unique physical attribute to identify a user - complex and can cause false permissions and denials
* False Acceptance Rate (FAR)/False Positive: Error when a person is falsely given access
* False Rejection Rate (FRR)/False Negative: When a person that should be accepted is not.
* Crossover error rate: Where the false positives are equal to false negatives in the biometric system
* Processing rate: Number of subject/auth attempts that can be validated
* On-prem solution: Active Directory
* Cloud solution: Azure AD
* HMAC-based One-Time Password (HOTP): HOTP algorithm used to generate a one-time password to auth using an auth server.
* Time-based One-Time Password (TOTP): HOTP with time-based factor
* Short Message Service (SMS): used to receive a short PIN for auth
* Token key: key inserted to prove identity
* Auth Application: authenticators using TOTP to protect users
* Push Notifications: phones can receive notifications with a code for auth
* Phone call: Phone calls can be used for code entry
* Static codes: codes made by a site to store data, good for retrieving data


## 6.3 Authorization
* Authorization: The process of controlling access to a resource
* Access Control List (ACL): A list of identities that can access an object.
* Permission: Controls the type of access allowed.
* Discretionary ACL (DACL): Implementation of Discretionary Access Control (DAC) where an owner adds users/groups to the DACL and identifies object permissions.
* System ACL (SACL): Microsoft's ACL for auditing past options on an object.
* Security Principal: A person, device, or group that can be permitted for an object.
* Each principal is given a Security ID (SID), user then gets a security token for accessing resources, when accessing resources the token is checked.
* Effective Permissions: If a member of two groups, the user has both group's permissions.
* Deny Permissions: disallow access and override Allow permissions. 


## 6.4 Windows User Management
* Azure Active Directory: Microsoft's cloud-based identity access management service for sign-ins and accessing resources.
* Windows Models:
  * Standalone: No LAN connection, data through the internet, no host-to-host direct connections
  * Workgroup: Peer-to-peer networking, each host gives/takes services, no direct host-to-host connections, hosts can access shared resources.
    * Easy to implement, no special hardware/software, inexpensive
    * Doesn't scale well, not good for 10-15 computers, and lacks central control
  * Client-Server: (aka domain networking) Each host has a role: provides or consumes services, and security principles stored in AD.
    * Security principle: Anything on the network that can be authenticated into AD
    * Domain Controller: the AD server maintaining the auth database (accounts not stored on the device, only AD)
    * Expensive to implement, specialized hardware and software, implementation takes time
    * use many Domain Controllers (DC) for redundancy
    * Centralized control for scalability, admin, and security control
* Active Directory: Centralized Database with users accounts and security info
* Domain objects: Resources, users, groups, computers, printers, and things that can be stored in AD
* Container Objects: Hold, and organize other objects (Called Organizational units in AD)
* LDAP vs AD: AD for Microsoft but also has services like Kerberos
* Azure AD: Microsoft Cloud-based AD service. Auths devices on a local network so no DC needed
  * Minimal setup needed, and can be a hybrid with local AD


## 6.5 Active Directory Overview
* Domain: An administrative collection of network resources sharing a common director database and security policy.
* Tree: A group of related domains sharing a DNS namespace
* Forest: A collection of domain trees w/ different namespaces
* Organizational Unit (OU): Like a folder, is a subdivision of a network in a domain
* Object: A resource in AD
* Domain Controller: Server with AD database (w/ read/write permissions)
* Replication: Copying changes to AD on domain controllers
* Member Servers: Domain servers w/out AD
* Policy: Confog settings applied to users/devices
* Built-in Containers: Containers auto-added to AD and cannot be moved, renamed, or deleted
* Object Attributes: Info about a specific object (name, contact, version, age...)
</br></br>
* Group Policy: config setting applied to work environment, user accounts, and computer accounts
* Local Group Policy: Configured at each device - used for small networks w/out AD
* Group Policy Objects: Grouped collections of policies (used for control over all devices and pushing through AD)
* Computer Policies: Used by the computer for all users including software, scripts, password settings, network security, registry setting
  * Applied at device Boot
* User Policies: Linked to a user and can differ per person. Includes software, scripts, browser favorites and security, and registry settings


## 6.6 Hardening Authentication
* MFA: Using more than one method type to auth a user
* Smartcards: embedded memory chips with auth info
* Microprobing: Accessing a smart card service to gain, manipulate, or interfere with the data
* Radio Frequency Identification (RFID): Wireless, non-contact use of radio waves to transfer data
* User education: Teach users to use memorable passwords, passwords, understanding social engineering, don't share access
* Password Hardening: Password history, complexity, management, and aging policies
* Account Hardening: Log-in one per person, time of day restrictions, account lockout threshold, reset lockout counter
* Old/Inactive Accounts: Delete/disable and include automatic expiration
* Domain Accounts: Stored on domain controller, managed by admin
* Local User Account: Stored Locally, not admin user accounts, rename admin accounts, create standard users, disable guest account
* Remote access Hardening: Limit remove access, connect through DMZ, restrict IPs, limit concurrent logins, audit remote logins


## 6.7 Linux Users
* Linux: multi-user OS with unique environment
* Account Info Locations: User, group, and password files and `/etc` directory
* Password File: `/etc/passwd` - account info with no passwords
* Account Types:
  * Standard: Users to log in
  * System: Services or daemons
* Password and Shadow Files: must be synced, sync broken w/ text editor, re-sync w/ `pwck`
* Shadow File: `/etc/gshadow` - stored group passwords
* Group File: `/etc/group` - contains info on each group
* `useradd`: `/etc/default/useradd` - contains the values by `useradd` function when creating user accounts
* login.defs: `/etc/login.defs` - groups, user ID, parameters for password encryptions & expiration values
* skel: `/etc/skel` - contains config files based on users' templates copied to home directories when users are created
* `passwd`: assign or change a password for a user
* `usermod`: modify an existing user
* `userdel`: removes a user from an account
* `!!`: This means that the account this corresponds to is locked
</br></br></br>
* Secure Passwords:
  * Train users to use strong passwords (8 char, mixed case, symbols, no dictionary words/usernames)
  * Passwords should expire often
  * Limit access to materials as needed
* `chage` (not misspelled): sets passwords to expire
* `ulimit`: Limits resources for apps launched in shell (hard and soft limits)
* Soft limit: A limit that can be changed by the user or exceded temporarily
* Hard Limit: Unbroken, only root can change hard limits
* `pam_limits`: `./etc/security/limits.conf` the document that stores all the limits and their values

## 6.8 Linux Groups
* `groupadd`: Created a new groups - options and settings in `/etc/login.defs`
* `groupmod`: modifies an existing groups
* `groupname`: prompts for a new password
* `gpasswd`: changes the group password
* `groupdel`: delete entries referring to a group
* `newgrp`: change the group ID in a login session
* `usermod`: mods group membership
* `groups`: displays all groups (primary and secondary for user accounts)


## 6.9 Remote Access
* Remote Access: Allows the host to connect to a remote server and access resources
* Remote Access Policies: Used to control access. Includes identity, conditions, permission, connection parameters, protocols, and other controls.
* Point-to-point protocol: Data-link connection, identifies upper layer protocols, assigns IP address, negotiates authentication.
* Password Authentication Protocol (PAP): (Two-Way handshake) Hostname and password in clear text ->, <-Returned an Accept/Reject
* Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol: (Three-Way handshake) Challenge ->, <- Response, <- Accept/Reject
* Extensible Authentication Protocol: Client/server negotiate and MFA
* Access Restriction Criteria: User, time, and connection-based restrictions
* Scaling Remote Access: AAA Server needed in order to scale up for larger demand
* AAA Server: Accounting, Authentication, & Authorization
* Accounting: Process of tracking activities, policies defined on-server, RAS requests then forwarded to this server
* AAA Server: called a 'server'
* Remote Access Servers (RAS): called 'clients' 
* Remote Authentication Dial-in User Services (RADIUS):
  * allows separation of accounting servers
  * supports PPP, CHAP, PAP
  * runs on 1-2 devices
  * uses UDP
  * used with Microsoft implementations
* TACACS+:
  * 3 protocols for each 'A'
  * AAA services can be on 1-3 servers
  * uses TCP
  * encrypts entire packet contents
  * created by Cisco and widely supported


## 6.10 Network Authentication
* Authentication: Validating a user's credentials to prove identity
* Challenge/Response: Server and Authenticator configured with a common shared secret, which is shared with a password and hashed for the user's account
* Digital Certificates: used as authentication, contain public and private keys, certificates issued by certificate authority using PKI
* Network Authentication Protocols:
  * Kerberos: Open source, originally for Linux/Unix but used in AD too. Provides single sign-on, mutual auth, asymmetric or asymetric cryptography, performs authentication and auth, tickets used to auth users
    * Key Distribution Center (KDC): Auth Server (AS), Ticket Granting Server (TGS), Kerberos database
    1. User sends a request to the AS
    2. The AS Issues a Ticket Granting Tickets (TGT)
    3. User Sends a request to the TGS
    4. TGS issues a service ticket
    5. User Contacts the file server with the service ticket
    6. User opens the document
    * Kerberos Benefits:
      * Improved Security: Cryptography, multiple keys, third-part auth, passwords never sent across a network
      * Transparency and Auditability
      * Mutual Authentication
      * Limited Ticket Lifetimes
      * Scalability
      * Reusable Authentications
      * Quick Fixes and updates
    * Hacking Methods:
      * Pass-the-ticket: The attacker forges a session key (usually a golden ticket, w/ domain admin access, or a silver ticket, w/ gaining access to a service)
      * Credential Stuffing/Brute Force Attacks: Automated attempts to guess a password
      * Skeleton Key Malware: Downgrades encryption and bypasses Kerberos.
      * DCShadow Attack: Gains enough access in a network to set up their own DC for more infiltration
  * Open Authorization (OAuth): open standard for token-based authentication
    * Tickets can be issued by third parties
    * Works with HTTP
    * Service separate from OpenID
  * OpenID: Standard for decentralized auth protocol
    * Authed by co-operating sites and do not rely on a central authority
  * Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP): Allows client and server to negotiate the characters of authentication
    * Frequently used for biometrics, smart cards, and certificate-based authentications
    * Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP): EAP protected with TLS
    * EAP-FAST: EAP with more flexibility and secure tunneling, also auth on point-to-point connections
  * 802.1x Authentication: Extention of EAP with usernames, passwords, certificates, smart cards, and biometrics
  * Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): for accessing LDAP-compliant directory services (not a directory)
    * Connects to Microsoft AD, Linux Open LDAP, NetIQ eDirectory
    * Open protocol used that access information stored in any LDAP-compliant directory
    * TCP/IP, can be secured
    * Modes: Simple - Username, password, unauthed, anonymous
    * Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL): Uses auth services, more secure, separates auth and app protocols
  * Credential Management System: Stores a user's auth credentials for many systems, servers, and sites
    * Windows: Credential Manager - manages auth credentials
    * Linux: KWalletManager - stores credentials with Blowfish and GPG for encryption


