# Security Assessments
## 11.1 Penetration Testing
* Penetration Tests: Authorised test simulating attacks on an organization's systems
* White Box Test: Ethical Hacker Given full knowledge of the target or network. This allows for a comprehensive test
* Black Box Test: The ethical hacker has no information about the organization that best simulates outside attacks.
* Gray Box Test: The ethical hacker is given some information such as IP configs, email lists, or other things to simulate an insider threat.
* Bug Bounty: Programs that are set up by the organization to find bugs in a system in exchange for cash.
* Red Team: Ethical hackers trying to penetrate the system.
* Blue Team: Ethical hackers trying to defend the system. Tries to stop the red team.
* Purple Team: Both attacking and defending working together
* White Team: Manage engagements between red and blue teams.
* Legal Requirements for Pen Testing:
  * Contracts
  * Data Ownership and retention
  * Permission to attack
  * Third-Party Authorization
  * Environmental Differences and Location Restrictions
  * Scope of Work
* Scope of Work (SoW): Detailed document defining exactly what will happen in the penetration test. (Who, what, when, where, why, and special considerations/additional work)
* Rules of Engagement (RoE): Defines Exactly how the Penetration Test will be carried out. (Types of tests, data handling, and notification processes)
* Penetration Testing Life Cycle:
  * Reconnaissance/Footprinting: Gather as much information about a target - OSINT and social engineering - provides a road map for the rest of the test
  * Scanning/Enumeration: Perform scans to find vulnerabilities (gain data like usernames, computer names, network resources, share names, running services)
  * Gain Access: Use the information gathered to try and obtain access, perform lateral moves, and eventually escalate privileges to get admin access.
  * Maintain Access: Done with backdoors, rootkits, or trojans
  * Report: Generate test results and supporting documentation (protects the tester and organization)
 
## 11.2 Monitoring and Reconnaissance
* Network monitoring: Keeps track of conditions on a network, finds issues, and identifies items that might cause issues and need to be upgraded.
* Top Talkers: Computers that send a lot of data
* Top Listeners: Computers that receive a lot of data.
* `ping`: Sends an ICMP packet and waits for a response.
* `tracert`: shows the path the packet took to get to it's destination (Windows with ICMP packets)
* `traceroute`: The same as `tracert` but on Linux using UDP packets
* `pathping`: Windows command combining `tracert` and `ping` commands to find devices that are down/slow
* `netstat`: Gives stats for the network including connections for different protocols, open ports, and running programs.
* `route`: Windows and Linux show routing tables and can make changes to these
* `arp`: Windows and Linux, match IP addresses to MAC addresses and are used for editing/removing values.
* `dnslookup`: used to view and modify DNS settings on Windows
* `dig`: used to view and modify DNS settings on Linux
* `ipconfig`: Windows command to display IP configurations on the local computer
* `ifconfig`: Linux command to display IP configurations on the local computer.
* `netcat`: reads and writes data across TCP and UDP (needs to be downloaded)
* IP Scanners: Tools that allow a network admin to scan the entire network to find all connected devices.
* `nmap`: network security scanner used to discover open ports, operating systems, and running services - can use many different types of protocols
* `zenmap`: GUI version of `nmap`
* OSINT Framework: a collection of resources and tools that are separated by common categories (gathers initial information)
* theHarvester: Passive tool (active if needed) using search engines, social media sites, and Shodan for data
* DNSenum: Looks for usernames, computer names, and IP addresses.
* `Curl`/`wget`: Downloads and uploads used for active reconisence. (Must be downloaded).
* Snlper: Combines many tools; DNS, open ports, used services, vulnerabilities, and active recon.
</br></br></br>
* Passive reconnaissance:
  * Packet sniffing: Capturing Packets for analysis - easiest on open wireless networks (passive recon if not interacting with target, just watching traffic)
    * War driving: Driving around with a wireless device to look for open wireless networks
    * War Flying: Flying around (with a drone) looking for open wireless networks
  * Eavesdropping: Listening in to people's conversations, including shoulder surfing and dumpster diving
  * OSINT: Finding as much PII as possible about an individual from public sources (search engines, social media, websites, government sources.)
* Active Reconnaissance: Gathering information by interacting with a target in some manner. (Some risk of exposure).
  * Goals: Gather IP configs, domains, and subdomains, DNS information, operating systems, software versions, usernames, passwords, physical server locations
 
## 11.3 Intrusion Detection:
* Intrusion Detection System: Device or software that monitors, logs, and detects security breaches (but does not take action to stop events)
* Intrusion Prevention System: A system that monitors, logs, detects, and tries to stop/prevent security breaches.
* Signature-basted Detection: This looks for patterns in traffic and compares them to known attack patterns called signatures.
* Heuristic-based detection: Defines a baseline for the network, and monitors for abnormal traffic.
* Host-Based IDS (HIDS): Software on the host monitoring traffic/activity for detecting attacks and can analyze encrypted traffic (typically unaware of other devices on the network)
* Network-Based IDS (NIDS): A device on the network that analyzes all traffic in real-time.
  * Out-of-band: Installed outside the flow of traffic traffic is mirrored to this device to scan for issues.
  * Inline: Installed in the flow of traffic, all traffic goes through the NIDS before passing through/dropped.
* Sensor: IDS component that passes data from the source to the analyzer
* Engine: IDS component that analyzes sensor data and events, generates alerts, and logs activity.
  * Steps: Sensor -> Engine -> IDS/IPS (labels traffic and determined safe/threat)
 
## 11.4 Security Assessment Techniques
* Threat Hunting: Methodical search and monitoring of the network, systems, and software to detect any malicious or suspicious activity that evaded automatic tools
* Vulnerability Scans: Capturing and analyzing packets to identify any security weaknesses in a network, system, application, or web app.
* Threat hunting steps:
  * Trigger
  * Investigation
  * Resolution
* Threat Feed: Tracking cyber threats across the world providing updates with IP addresses, URLs, and other helpful/relevant information
* Advisories/Bulletins: Detailed updates on threats are usually updated weekly
* Intelligence Fusion: The sharing of information between companies and governmental organizations.
* Intrusive Scans: Finds and attempts to exploit potential vulnerabilities, accurate results, can not be done on production systems
* Non-intrusive Scans: Finds and lists vulnerabilities only, can be done on production systems, and needs additional action
* Non-credentialed Scan: Finds open ports, protocols, and services simulating an outside surface-view attack
* Credentialed Scan: Uses Admin credentials, finds more issues, and is difficult to manage in a larger network
* Common Vulnerability Scoring System: A system that lists vulnerabilities on severity.
* Common Vulnerability and Exposures (CVE): A list of standardized identifiers for known software vulnerabilities (free public list and baseline for evaluation)
* Log Auditing: Checking logs and making sure that information is collected/dealt with correctly.
* System Config Reviews: Making sure the system is all created and maintained properly and ensuring that privilege creep does not occur.
</br></br></br>
* Security Information and Event Management (SIEM): Tools that gather network information and determine if a threat occurs
* Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR): A stack of software solutions that collect data about threats and respond automatically to low-level issues without human assistance.
* Next-Generation SIEM: Uses AI/ML to analyze user behavior and user sentiment
* SOAR can gather the same info as SIEM but also gathers data from third-party tools. SOAR also does more with sensors, tools, and collectors
* Playbook: A checklist of things to do when an event happens
* Runbook: A series of conditional steps to respond to threats.

## 11.5 Protocol Analyzers
* Protocol Analyzer: Hardware or software used to monitor and analyze traffic over the internet.
  * Other names include packet sniffers, network analyzers, network sniffers, and network scanners
* Analyzers: Wireshark, WinDump, Cain, TCPDump
* Promiscuous Mode: A mode where everything sent to the NIC is scanned, not just items sent to a specific computer/device.
* Port Mirroring: A switch mode where all frames are sent to one switch port are also sent to another for scanning.
* Passive Interception: Scanning the network's packets without changing them or affecting the operation of the system
* Network Administrator: Someone who looks for malicious packets and events happening on the network
* SecOps: Scans for open ports, passwords, and fragmented packets for security purposes.
* System Fingerprinting: Ensures that the system that is being accessed is the intended one without interference.
* Interception Attacks: MitM, Replay, and Spoofing attacks; session hijacking; and MAC flooding

## 11.6 Analyzing Network Attacks
* Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attack: An attack where the attacker intercepts communication between two devices.
  * MitM Methods: IP address, DNS, & HTTPS spoofing; SSL & email Hijacking; WiFi Eavesdropping; Stealing Browser Cookies
* ARP Poisoning: The attacker changes the ARP cache by spoofing the IP address of the target
  * ARP Poisoning Effects: Unreadable HTTPS, packet sniffing, session hijacking, DDoS Attack, Alter communications
  * ARP Prevention: Encrypt web traffic (HTTPS)
* MAC Spoofing: The attacker spoofs the MAC address of the gateway
* MAC Flooding: Filling up the Switch MAC table causes the switch to fail to open and data to go to all ports.
  * DoS, packet sniffing, advanced Attack
* DNS Attack: Targets the DNS services
* DNS Hijacking: An attacker gets access to the DNS records.
  * DNS Hijacking Techniques: Phishing, social engineering, registrar exploitation, URL redirection, and domain transfer
* URL Redirection Attack: Attempting to go to a legitimate website but are redirected to an insecure one.
* Domain/IP reputation: Monitor Domain Activities; causes spam emails, zombie networks, or on any blocked lists
* DDoS: Bombards the target with more data than usable causing it to shut down: Overload target/network, hit application, and affect the entire system.
  * DDoS Attack Types: Application layer attacks, protocol attacks, amplification attacks
  * Amplification Attack: Consume bandwidth by essentially cutting the target off.
* Layer 2 Attack: Use protocol misuse to overwhelm systems, commonly in DoS Attacks.
</br></br></br>
* Python: Easy to read and understand the code and good for automation
  * Python Vulnerabilities: Code from online can contain RATs, libraries used can be insecure, and can potentially give unwanted access to device capabilities
* Command Shell: Provides an interface for users to access the operating system and services
  * Command Shell Vulnerabilities: can run malicious code from online with significant access to computer functions
* Macros: Code used to perform a series of steps/functions in an application.
  * These functions can live in the background of safe applications (Microsoft Word/Excel) and execute harmful functions
 
## 11.7 Password Attacks
* Social Engineering: Using manipulation of people/situations to gain sensitive information
* Password Guessing: Guessing passwords based on sensitive information of people
* Physical Access: Trying to gain information from the physical location of the user's work/home
* Dumpster Diving: The user goes through the user's trash to find information that might have been improperly disposed of.
* Shoulder Surfing: Looking over someone's shoulder when entering a password
* Brute Force Attack: Trying all possible combinations until one is correct
* Password Spraying: Brute Forces Attack trying the same password for multiple user accounts
* Dictionary Attacks: Brute Force Attacks using a list of words or phrases to guess the password
  * Password Cracking Apps: John the Ripper, Hashcat, Medusa, Cain & Abel
* Rainbow Attacks: Specific tables that have common passwords and the hash of that password
  * Salting the Hash: Taking a password and adding a salt before hashing it to make it more secure.
  * Rainbow Attack Apps: Rtgen, Winrtgen, RainbowCrack, Ophcrack
