# Threats, Attacks, and Vulnerabilities
## 2.1 Understanding Attacks

* Internal Threat: A threat from authorized users who exploit assigned privileges from inside to carry out an attack.
* External Threat: A threat that is from people outside the organization and attempt to gain unauthorized access.
* Persistent threat: A threat that seeks to gain access to a network and remains undetected.
* Non-persistent threat: A threat that focuses on getting into a system and stealing information. This is usually a one-time event and the attacker is not worried about detection.
* Open-source intelligence (OSINT): Information that is readily available to the public.
* Targeted attack: An attack that is carried out against a specific organization purposefully and for a reason.
* Opportunistic Attack: An attack that is made because quicky and with minimal effort. Usually makes the threat actor money.
* Hackers: Any threat agent who uses knowledge to bypass security, exploit a vulnerability, or gain access to privileged information.
  * White Hat: Uses hacking skills for defensive purposes only.Only access systems with explicit permission.
  * Gray Hat: Between Black and White hat, good intentions but might not act legally or ethically.
  * Black Hat: A bad actor who uses knowledge for bad purposes.
  * Elite: Hackers able to find and exploit a vulnerability before anyone else. (Uncommon)
  * Blue: Hacker that attempts to hack into the network with the permission of a company, but not an employee of the company.
* Threat Actors:
  * Skript Kiddies: Attackers that use automated tools and don't do much to any programming themselves.
  * Hacktivists: Hackers driven by a cause - social change, political agendas, or terrorism.
  * Cybercriminal: Subcategory of hackers willing to take more risks and be more extreme.
  * Nation State: A government entity that is attacking a target with a lot of resources.
  * Insider: A threat agent that is in an organization and intentionally or unintentionally carries out an attack.
  * Competitor: A threat working for a competing organization that may carry out a threat.
  * Shadow IT: A where users implement IT solutions not approved by an organization.


## 2.2 Malware
* Malware: Software designed to take over/damage a device without the users approval.
  * Ransomware: Malware that denies access unless a payment is made.
  * Trojan: Malicious program pretending to be legitimate.
  * Remote Access Trojan (RAT): Malware that includes a back door to allow a hacker to control the computer.
  *  Worms: A self-replicating malicious program.
  *  Rootkits: Set of hidden at the administrator level allowing access to a computer. Hard to find/address.
  *  Backdoors: Methods of providing access other than the normal method of authentication.
  *  Botsnet: A group of zombie computers that are commanded from a central controller.
  *  Zombie: A computer that is infected with malware and is controlled by a zombie-master. Also known as C&C (command and control).
  *  Keyloggers: Programs that capture keystrokes, mouse movement, touchscreen touches, device swipes, and/or other inputs from the user.
  *  Logic Bombs: Malware designed to go off under specific conditions. Dorment until conditions are met.
  *  Virus: A program attempts to damage the computer and replicate itself on other systems.
    * Memory residents
    * Non-memory resident
    * Boot sector
    * Macro
    * Email
  * Fileless Virus: Use legitimate programs to infect a computer.
  * Spyware: Software installed without the user's knowledge or consent and is designed to intercept or take control of a device.
  * Potentially Unwanted Program (PUP): software that contains  adware, install toolbars, or has other objectives.
  * Malicious code: Scripts that are created and run that can harm a device.
 * Crimeware: Malware for identity theft. Allows for access to online financial accounts or services.
 * Adware: Malware that monitors preferences and sends ads that match preferences.
 * Scareware: Scam tool to fool the user into thinking they have malware on the system.
 * Cracker: A person who develops or distributes malware.
 * Adversarial AI: A field where AI is used for malicious purposes.
 * Malware presentation:
   * Update browser
   * Install patches
   * Antivirus
   * Anti-rootkit
   * Anti-spyware
   * Firewalls
   * Pop-up blockers
   * Regular Scans
   * User Training
 * Malware recovery:
   * Re-install applications, features, or OS
   * Re-image a machine
   * Remediation
   * Repair the infection
   * Quarantine the file
   * Delete the file
 
   
## 2.3 Social Engineering
* Social Engineering: Manipulating people to get them to do a specific thing. (Human Hacking)
* Tactics:
  * Moral Obligation: Make the victim feel a sense of responsibility to be helpful.
  * Innate Human Trust: Attackers exploit the trust of others using social cues or body language to get them to say or do something.
  * Threatening/Intimidation: Attackers may threaten targets to get them to comply.
  * Offer something for little to nothing: If the victim does something for you, then you will reward them in a large way.
  * Ignorance: The target is not aware of social engineering and doesn't know it's happening.
* Social Engineering Process:
  1. Research Phase: Gather information about the target.
     * Footprinting: Includes going through websites, social media, dumpster diving, and any other observation.
  2. Development Phase: Selecting individual targets and forming relationships.
  3. Exploitation Phase: Get the information, password, or gain some sort of info or access.
* Social Engineering Attacks:
  * Shoulder surfing: Look over the person's shoulder to get information
  * Eavesdropping: Listening to a conversation to gain information.
  * Tailgating: Gaining physical entrance by following someone with access into an area.
  * USB and Keyloggers: Steal data onsite with a USB drive or keystroke logger.
  * Spam or SPIM (Spam over instant messaging): Send bad URLs that would get other people to click it.
  * Hoax: Email with some alarming message.
* Types of Attackers:
  * Insider: Someone from the organization.
  * Hacker: Threat actors who use technical knowledge to bypass security or gain some knowledge or information.
  * Nation State: Highly target attacks performed by a country.
* Motovation Tequniques:
  *  Authority: Pretend to be someone important and make the victim comply to an order.
  *  Intimidation: Make the victim scared making them do the action, otherwise threatened actions will occur.
  *  Socal Proof/Consensus: Everyone else is doing this, so you should too.
  *  Scarcity: Appeals to greed. There isn't much of a product.
  *  Familiarity: This relies on individuals you like what they represent. Some person recommends this one item.
  *  Urgency: Fabricates a scenario to make people want the item before it is too late.
  *  Trust: Connection to an individual where trust is created/existing in order to gain something.
* Attack Types:
  * Opportunistic: The opportunity happens and someone takes advantage of it.
  * Targeted: Carried out against an organization for a reason and will likely have substantial resources.
* Elicitation:
  * Compliments: An attacker will give the target compliments to get a reaction/feeling.
  * Misinformation: The user will give the wrong details to gain some advantage.
  * Feigning ignorance: Pretending to not know something to get help or information.
  * Being a Good Listener: Just being there and listening to an individual and sharing similar real or fabricated examples.
* Pretexting: Creating fake events to persuade someone to do something or give info.
* Preloading: Influence someone's thoughts or actions before something happens.
* Impersonation: Pretend to be someone else to gain something.
* Interview/Interrogation: The attacker lets the target talk while listening and then talks about the target's statements.
* Environment: Attackers' actions set a mood to elicit a specific response.
* Observation: During these interviews, the hacker pays close attention to all actions by the victim.
* Phishing: Sending out information/ads to get some sort of information from the targets.
  * Spearfishing: Gathers information about the victim, and exploits the target using the information.
  * Whaling: Another form of fishing  targeting senior executives and other high-profile people.
  * Vishing: Phishing using VoIP (Voice over IP) to gain sensitive information.
  * SMiSHing: Phishing over SMS messages and getting them to install something on their device.
* Pharming: Executing programs that will send users to a malicious website.
* Social Networking: Sealing info or identities over social media or scamming through messaging of these sites.
* Typo Squatting (URL Hijacking): Mistyping a URL can redirect the user to a similar-looking fake website.
* Hybrid Warfare: Influences users with things like fake news or some sort of intervention to spread influence.
* Watering Hole Attack: Ovserves the sites that an organization uses and infects these with malware so the org then accesses an infected site.
* Credential Harvesting: Getting the usernames, passwords, email addresses, and other information on users.


## 2.3 Vulnerability Concerns
* Vulnerability Management Programs: Identify, prioritize, and remediate vulnerabilities in environments.
* Vulnerability scanning: Issued to detect issues that can then be addressed with the highest priority first.
* Identify Scan Targets: What gets scanned?
* Determining Scan Frequency: How often do the scans take place?
* Configuring Scans: Sensitivity, additional network scans, scans perspective.
* Scanner maintenance: Updating scanner software and ensuring everything is picked up.
* Vulnerability Scanning Tools: Infrastructure, Web App, and application scans done on something like Nessus.
* Reviewing Reports: Looking at the reports, fixing the issues, or accepting the risk that is associated with these users.
* Validating Scans: False positives, comparing data to other scans, checking and validating sources.
* Penetration testing: Testing systems to test a system in the same way as a skilled attacker.
* Cloud-based vs. on-premises: Is the data stored on the site, or is it in a data center, somewhere in the cloud?
* Third Part risks: By adding in someone else, there are more options for risks and possibly less control.
* Zero-day vulnerability: Software that is not known to the vendor.
* Improper/weak patch management: Patching the system could be neglected or done wrong making weak points in the system.
* Legacy Platforms: Older platforms might not be able to be up-to-date on current protections and may be more vulnerable to exploits.
* Vulnerabilities: Default settings, unsecured accounts, open ports, open permissions, errors, insecure protocols, weak encryption.
* Impact of Vulnerabilities:
  1. Data Loss: The loss of files and docs either on accident or maliciously.
  2. Data Breach: The exposure of confidential or protected data either on accident or maliciously.
  3. Data Exfiltration: The unauthorized transfer of data.
  4. Identity Theft: The attacker uses someone else's name or account to obtain information or money. 
  5. Financial loss: Loss of data or data confidentiality or availability can have a long-lasting impact on an org.
  6. Reputation loss: An attack can harm the image of the business and cause a loss in revenue.  
  7. Availability Loss: The network can crash making the data or resources unavailable when needed. 
