# Cryptography and PKI
## 7.1 Cryptography
* cryptography: The practice and study of hiding information
* Cryptanalysis: Analysing and finding some weakness or insecurity in a cryptographic scheme
* Encryption: Taking data and turning it into an unreadable form (Plaintext -> Cyphertext)
* Cryptology: Cryptography and cryptanalysis
* Plaintext: The readable form of data before encryption
* Ciphertext: Data after encrypted (not readable)
* Decryption: Method of turning ciphertext into plaintext
* Encryption Cipher/Algorithm: Rules/procedures to encrypt or decrypt data
* Key/Cryptovariable: A value used tint encryption
* Keyspace: The length of bits that a key takes up - longer ones means less opportinity duplicates
* Historical Encryption Usages:
  * Substitution: changing one character for another
  * Ceaser cipher: Shifting all letters to a specific number of spaces.
  * ROT-13: Rotates letters 13 spaces
  * Vigenere Table: shifting letters a specific amount based on the letters of a key.
* Provides confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and/or non-repudiation 


## 7.2 Implementations
* Confidentiality: Ensuring data is made available to authorized people only.
* Integrity: The protection from information being altered in some way.
* Hashing: often used to create signatures for files showing if it's been edited.
* Authentication: Validating the user is who they claim to be. Done through electronic signatures or other forms of ID
* Non-repudiation: the ability to prove the origin of a signature or document (un-deniable)
* Obfuscation: Security through obscurity, making the data unreadable to a human or program. (Ex. XXX-XXX-XXX-1234 credit card number)
* Cryptographic Considerations:
  * Security Constraints: ciphers need hardware to support computing power. Hardware must be ataquit
  * Speed: Different algorithms take different time lengths to perform
  * Different lengths: Different key, different key size
  * Weak keys: some keys are weaker than others and should not be used
  * Longevity: Some keys are one-time and some can be used for longer
  * Entropy (randomness): By adding in a salt, this can reduce predictability
  * Reuse: Improper rescue of keys can cause weaknesses
  * Computational Overloads: Some keys need more computation than what is available for the device.
* Confusion: cyphertext is dependent on many parts of the key making a more thorough encryption process
* Diffusion: a small change can change the entire string of variables.
* Substitution: changing letters using many alphabets and changes
* Transposition: the characters are rearranged through a mathematical process.
* Symmetric Keys: encryption where both parties use the same key for encryption and decryption
* Symmetric Keys Advantages and Disadvantages:
  * This only works if the users are able to protect the secret key
  * Doesn't scale up well
  * The system needs a secure way to distribute the keys
  * only offers confidentiality
  * Difficult to crack with a larger key
  * Faster than asymmetric encryption
* Symmetric Cryptography Types:
  * Stream Cypher: Encrypts one bit of data at a time (faster than block, uses random IV with XOR and key, uses RC4 and WEP)
  * Block Cypher: Encrypts entire blocks of data and not a single bit at a time (usually 64 bits, uses DES, 3DES, AES, Rijndael, Blowfish, or Twofish)
* Modes of Operation: 
  * Electronic Codebook (ECB): Confidentiality mode cyphertext with plaintext blocks (not used much anymore and susceptible to replay attacks)
  * Cypher Block Chaining (CBC): Confidentiality mode that involves chaining plaintext blocks to the previous ciphertext (requires IV to combine with first plaintext block)
  * Cypher Feedback (CFB): Confidentiality mode that users segments of cyphertext to create blocks that are then XORed with plaintext (requires IV with the first block)
  * Output Feedback (OFB): Confidentiality mode using forward cipher on an IV to make output blocks XORed with plaintext to make ciphertext (IV is a nonce)
  * Counter: Confidentiality mode combining forward cipher and input blocks to make output blocks XORed with plaintext to produce cyphertext
  * Galois Counter Mode (GCM): Confidentiality mode using a variation of Counter encryption - can also provide authentication for unencrypted data
* Block Cipher w/ 64 bit: DES, 3DES, Blowfish
* Block Cipher w/ 128 bit: AES, Twofish
* Streaming Cipher: RC4
* Asymmetric Encryption: Everyone has a pair (2) of mathematically related keys (private and public) - the sender uses the public key of the receiver to encrypt, receiver decrypts with the public key.
* Key Escrow: A third party holds a special third key used to encrypt the private key, this can be used to unlock the copy of the private key if it is lost or stolen.
* Asymmetric Encryption Advantages and Disadvantages:
  * Authentication and non-repudiation
  * More manageable & scalable way to deal with keys
  * Slower than Symmetric
* Asymmetric Encryption Types: RSA, Elliptic Curve, Diffie-Hellman, & DSA
  * Elliptic Curve - uses the algebraic structure of elliptic curves, lightweight (good for IoT and limited resources devices)
  * RSA: The most well-known encryption created in 1977 and the 2048-bit version is secure
* Out-of-band key exchange: not sent over the network (some other way)
* In-Band key exchange: Key communicated over the network when the session begins. (one-time key created in real-time)
* Ephemeral Keys: temporary keys
* Static Keys: Keys with a longer lifespan (usually 1-2 years)
* Secret Key Benefit: If the secret key is leaked, the other messages encrypted by the system are still secure (PFS)
* Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS): Architecture used to keep the system secure if a key is leaked. One leaked key does not compromise the entire system.
* Random/Pseudo-Random Numbers/Inputs:
  * Salt: Randomly generated input with some hashing scheme
  * Initialization Vector (IV): Used to be sure that if the same block is transmitted the ciphertext will be different. Block and Steam Ciphers use IVs.
  * Nonces: One-time number, sometimes using a salt, can be random/pseudo-random. Can be vulnerable to replay attacks.
* Key stretching: Strengthen a weak key by increasing the length of the key through Password-Bassed Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) and bcrypt.
* Post-Quantum Cryptography: Algorithms that can remain secure against quantum computing - usually referring to asymmetric encryption.
* Homomorphic Encryption: Deals with the protection of data-in-transit. This involves data being processed as well as data at rest.
* Steganography: This does not include algorithms to encrypt data, but contains data within the data of an image. Uses bitmap (BMP), watermark, and unused sections of disks, as long as it does not affect the original image.
* Blockchain: Publically accessible ledgers that record online peer-to-peer interactions. All the systems in the chain validate transactions - the longer the chain, the more validity that transaction holds - usually used for crypto transactions


## 7.3 Hashing 
* A one-way function applied to a password, message, or document before transmission changing the entire message
* Hash Types: MD5, SHA1, SHA2, SHA3
* Hash requirements:
  * Accept input of any length
  * Output of fixed length
  * Hash Value is relatively easy to compute
  * Function is one-way - cannot be undone
  * Hash function is collision-free (no two values with the same hash)
* Message Digest 5 (MD5): An improvement from MD4, slower but more complex, widely used,  security applications and integrity checking
* Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA): Uses TLS, IPSec, and SSL - SHA2 is most commonly used but SHA3 gaining popularity, SHA1 is not secure
* Diffie-Hellman Exchange (DHE): An agreement protocol that exchanges encryption keys over insecure mediums (does not auth users)
* Elliptic-Curve Diffie Hellman Exchange (ECDHE): An improvement on DHE, this allows users to auth one another with Elliptic-curve public-private key pairs, digital signatures, and Public Key Certificates - Used in PKI
* ElGamal: Asymmetric algorithm for digital signatures and encryption - used in PGP and GPG - DSA based on ElGamal signature scheme (computes discrete logarithms)
* Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA): Created by NIST and the NSA using discrete logs for auth only. RSA is more common now.
* Digital Signatures: Provides integrity and non-repudiation (not confidentiality) using PKI
* RACE Integrity Primitives Evaluation Message Digest (RIPEDM): Based on MD4, used to reduce the chance of hash collisions. Current version: RIPEMD-160.
* Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC): Algorithm used for message auth purposes - used for authentication and integrity (more efficient than DSA but no non-repudiation)
  * Message Authentication Code (MAC): Sent with the message to let the sender authenticate the receiver.

##### Cryptographic Attacks:
* Brute Force: Trying to guess every possible key
* Frequency Analysis: looking of blocks of encrypted messages and looking for common patterns.
* Known Plaintext: The attacker knows some of the plaintext, they can then reverse engineer the rest of the message. (Used with the Enigma machine breaking)
* Chosen Plaintext: The attacker obtains cyphertext that goes with their plaintext, they can then reverse engineer the process using differential cryptanalysis.
* Related Key Attack: The attacker obtains cyphertext under two keys and can compare the two.
* Birthday Attack: With 23 people there is a 51% chance 2 will share a birthday. This is a collision - this uses brute forcing and looking for collisions between inputs.
* Downgrade Attack: Trying to shift the user's system to less secure cryptographic modes. (MD5 -> MD4 which is easier to break)
* Rainbow Tables: Takes a list of hashes and passwords and checks to see if the hash is used in the table.
* Prevention for rainbow tables: Salting and key stretching
* Exploiting Weak Keys: Something strong like AES can be used but implemented with WEP, weakening it (WEP is old and uses RC4).
* Exploiting Human Error: Making sure passwords are stored and transmitted securely, not written down, or put into the wrong hands.


## 7.4 File Encryption
##### EFS
* Encrypting File System (EFS): Encrypts individual files and folders on Windows computers
* File Encryption Key (FEK): A pseudo-random number used with AES to encrypt files and folders in EFS.
* Data Decryption Field (DDF): A location in the EFS encrypted header that stores the FEK.
* Data Recovery Agent (DRA): An  account that has the right to decrypt EFS files/folders.
* Security Concerns:
  * Keys can be backed up to a drive
  * Files are auto-decrypted when moved to a non-NTFS-formatted device using SMB
  * EFS Security is reliant on the user's password

##### PGP and GPG
* GNU Privacy Guard (GPG): Encryption tool encrypting/digitally signing emails, and encrypts docs.
  * supports common algorithms like RSA, DSA, 3DEs, IDEA, MD5, SHA - AES by default.
  * Windows 7, Linux, Android, Apple OS X, and more
  * Free and open source
* Pretty Good Privacy (PGP): commercial (not free) encryption program owned by NortanLifeLock and used to protect most types of devices
  * RSA or Diffie-Hellman for asymmetric and IDEA for symmetric
* OpenPGP: Standard for encrypting and decrypting with symmetric and asymmetric cryptography. Used by PGP and GPG

##### BitLocker
* Used to encrypt an entire volume, protecting data even if the hard drive is moved to another device
* Introduced in Windows Vista and not available for Windows Home additions.
* Partitions/Volumes: The user can encrypt specific partitions or volumes on a device.
* Encryption Options: Encrypt the 'used space only' or the 'entire drive' - the entire drive takes longer to encrypt/decrypt
* Trusted Platform <module (TPM) Chip: A physical computer chip that stores the key. Without the key stored in this chip decryption is impossible - the chip is a newer feature
* Data Recovery: Randomly generated 'recovery key' moved to the hard drive, changing the startup file with BitLocker in the locked state.

##### Data Recovery
* To Recover Data: Use a recovery key, Data Recovery Agent (DRA), configure recovery in group policy, and make backups on other hardware.
* Transparent Data Encryption (TDE): Encrypt database files at rest. This process is invisible to the user
* Column-Level Encryption: Encrypt specific data columns in the database - unique key for each column - can cause a performance hit
* Application-Level Encryption: Encrypt the entire data - data encrypted then the whole database is encrypted. Setup required for resources.

## 7.5 Public Key Infrastructure
* Public Key Infrastructure (PKI): The environment in which public encryption keys can be created and managed through the key's lifecycle
* Key Lifecycle: Key Generation, Establishment, Storage, Usage, Archival, Destruction, Generation
* Certificate Authorities (CA): A reputable organization responsible for certifying companies and organizations that want to securely communicate over the Internet.
* Certificate Chaining: CAs use a hierarchy of multiple CAs to increase security, called a chain of trust.
  * Root CA: First CA - has a self-sign certificate used to validate additional subordinate CAs
  * Intermediate CAs: Subordinate CAs that validate the issuing CAs
  * Issuing CAs: Validate and distribute tickets
 ##### Certificate Creation:
* Certificate Signing Request (CSR): A request by an organization to the CA. This contains:
  * Common Name (CN): Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDM) of the site
  * Subject Alternate Names (SAN): Optional name if there are many hostnames for one certificate
  * Organization: Legal name of the corporation
  * Organizational Unit: The part of the company handling the certificate.
  * City, State, Region/Location: Location of org.
  * Country: 2-letter country code
  * Public Key: Generate and include a public key for the org.
* Certified by the root CA. This then includes:
  * Verison: X.509 version used
  * Serial Number: A unique identifier for the cert.
  * Signature Algorithm: Algorithm to sign the certificate
  * Issuer: Org that issues the certificate
  * Valid To/Valid From: Date range where the certificate is valid
  * Subject: Name and location of the cert.'s org.
  * Public Key: The public key and algorithm used to make the public key.
* X.509: Standard that defines the format of certificates
* Reasons for invalidating certificates: org no longer exists, issued cert. is fraudulent, the private key is compromised
* Certification Revocation List (CRL): a banned list of certificates. If a cert. is compromised it goes on this list. CRLs constantly checked
* Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP): X.509 standard defining internet protocol used to determine validity - faster than CRLs
  * This server makes a list of revoked certificates and checks for validity
 
##### Certificate Types & Validation Levels
* When an org requests a certificate it must request a specific type
* Root Certificate: The first certificate a CA makes, self-signed, used to sign other intermediate certificates
* Subject Alternative Name (SAN): A certificate for if there are many alternative names for the site (`example.com` and `example.net` could both be used by one company)
* Wildcard Certificate: Certificates with different prefixes belonging to the same site (`text.example.com` and `quiz.example.com`)
* Code-Signing Certificate: Used by developers, proves app legitimacy, w/out the certificate app will have a warning
* Self-Signed Certificate: Not validated by a CA, easy and free to make, no protection/security, the user sees a warning
* Email Certificate: S/MIME Protocol, contains the public keys, internal CAs used
* User and Computer Certificate: internal servers can receive certificates from a device or a user specifying the sender
</br></br>
* SSL Validation Levels: Domain, Organization, and Extended Validation
* Domain Validation: Not super secure, issued to anyone as an admin in WHOIS record, validated with email/call, issued in minutes
* Organization Validation: Validates domain and makes sure the org. is real, takes 1-3 days to issue, every CA has a different process for validation
* Extended Validation: The highest level of trust, domain, and in-depth validation of the organization, issued in 1-5 days.

##### Certificate Formats & Concepts
* X.509 Standard: The current standard for PKI
* Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER): Older format, Defined by ASN.1, Windows Binary format for Windows, `.der` or `.cer`
* Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM): certificates are base 64 DER files converted from binary to ASCII - root certificate w/ private key - `.pem`, `.crt`, `.cer`, or `.key` extension
* PKCS #7: Created with RSA - based on PEM, only contains cert. chains, used with digital signatures, extension `.p7b` or `.p7c` - cryptographic message syntax
* PKCS #12: Created with RSA - based on PEM, holds chains and private key, password protected certificates, extension `.pfx` or `.p12` - personal information Exchange syntax
</br></br>
* Certificate Chaining: gaining validity through a chain of authorities (CA -> root CA -> several Intermediate CAs -> many issuing CAs)
* CRL Management: Root CA communicates with the CRL Manager to keep track of invalid certificates
* OCSP Stapeling: Protocol allowing checking the OCSP responder for the certificate which is a faster process.

##### Trust Models
* Single Trust Model:
  * Conly one CA that issues and distributes certificates
  * all users trust the CA and do not trust other CAs
  * only for small organizations
  * if compromised the entire CA must be replaced
* Hierarchical Trust Model:
  * Tree-like structure
  * CA creates self-signed root CAs and then passes the certificate to subordinate CAs
  * Intermediate (subordinate to the root CA) validates the issuing CAs
  * issuing CA validates and distributes certificates
* Mesh Model: Several CAs interacting and validating certificates for one another - one CA is not the root for all certificates
* Bridge Model: Like the Hierarchical model, but without a tree-like structure (ONE CA -> ONE root CA -> ONE Intermediate CA -> ONE issuing CA)
  * A bridge can be formed from one Certificate authority (CA) to another
* Web of Trust: Direct trust of one thing or person can result in another object trusting it.
* Key Backup Options: Key Archival or Key Escrow
  * Key Archival:
    * CA backups private keys
    * The user sends the key to CA for safety
    * if CA is breached, keys are compromised
    * Keys available if lost or forgotten
  * Key Escrow:
    * Trusted third part of backups of private keys
    * meets security and legal requirements
    * Legal action may be needed to access keys

