# Wireless Threats
## 8.1 Wireless Overview
* Wireless Networks: Easy to set up and low cost, these are subject to the same risks of cabled networks in addition to some form of eavesdropping, DoS, and intrusion.
* 801.11 is the IEEE standard for wireless communications
  * 801.11a: WiFi 2 - 54 Mbps - 5 GHz
  * 801.11b: WiFi 1 - 11 Mbps - 2.4 GHz
  * 801.11g: WiFi 3 - 54 Mbps - 2.4 GHz
  * 801.11n: WiFi 4 - 200+ Mbps - 2.4 or 5 GHz
  * 801.11ac: WiFi 5 - 1 Gbps - 5 GHz
  * 801.11ax: WiFi 6/WiFi 6E - 9.5 Gbps - 1-5/1-6 GHz
* Channels: Subdivisions of wireless frequencies (US: 11 channels, Europe: 13 channels, Japan: 14 channels)
  * Channels too close interfere with one another and channels should be as far as possible (11-1-11-1)
  * 5 GHz was designed to avoid the overlap
  * 5 GHz preferred for external networks, 2.4 GHz preferred for internal
  * Most mesh networks use 5 GHz
  * 6 GHz supports 7 160 MHz channels but is more restricted by obstacles
* Wireless Access Point (WAP): Broadcasts information over radio waves, functioning as a wireless hub
* Service Set IDentifier (SSID): Associates a name with a wireless network
* WAP Types: Fat & Thin
  * FAT: Standalone device that has everything needed to manage clients and broadcast network
  * Thin: Broadcast the network with another system to manage users and access
* Wireless Hardware:
  * Wireless interface: A device that connects to a wireless access point
  * Wireless bridge: Connecting to wireless networks together - can be implemented with a double wired connection between WAPs or a Wireless Distribution System (WDS)
  * Wireless LAN Controller (WLC): Used in an enterprise environment to manage WAPs, clients, and loads from the networking closet.
  * Lightweight Wireless Access Point (LWAP): Used with a wireless controller, contains little technology and relies on WLC for functionality and deciding to drop/forward
</br></br></br>
* Ad hoc mode (Peer-to-peer): allows networking devices to communicate without a centralized port authority.
  * WiFi Direct is a version of ad hoc mode with WPA2 and WPA3
* Infrastructure mode: means a WAP is required with enforced restrictions
* Standalone mode: A WAP connecting wireless devices together but not to wired resources.
* Wired Extension Mode: The WAP acts like a connection point to link the wireless clients to a wired network.
* Enterprise Extended Mode: Many WAPs are used to connect a large area to the same wired network (all WAPS use the same SSID)
* Bridge Mode: A wireless connection connects two wired networks
</br></br></br>
* Wireless Antenna: Absorbs incoming radio signals and radiates outgoing signals - some are external, some internal
* Power Gain: Decibel number of max radiation power to the antenna.
* Antenna Types:
  * Normal-gain: A normal antenna with a strength between 2 and 9 dBi.
  * High-gain: An antenna with about 12+ dBi.
  * Omnidirectional: Sends signals in all directions 360 degrees.
  * Directional: Focuses the radiation and absorption in a specific direction
  * Parabolic: Uses a parabolic dish and can send very high-gain signals over long distances
  * Omnidirectional normal-gain: The most common type because it works well for various situations.
</br></br></br>
* Heat Map: Mapping the strength of signals over a building blueprints to find hot spots and cold spots
* Sight Survey Types:
  * Passive: Scanning the network to make sure the WAPs are operational and functional.
  * Active: Involves going around the physical location and measuring the signal in all places. Usually involves creating a heat map.
  * Predictive: Involves using scanning software to map the network and find all the devices connected to the network.
 
## 8.2 Wireless Attacks
* Rogue Access Points: Any unauthed AP connected to a network. Can capture credentials, used for MitM attacks, and conduct phishing
  * Rogue AP Protections: Put APs on VLANs, conduct sight surveys to find rogue APs, check MAC addresses, analyze traffic, and disconnect any rogue APs found.
* Evil Twin Attack: Rogue AP used to mimic a legitimate network, jamming used to remove users from a network, users then connect to attackers AP who can capture the information
  * Conduct Radio frequency (RF) noise analysis to find malicious rogue AP using jamming
* Initialization Vector (IV) attack: The reuse of IVs in encryptions make cracking easy. Flooding a network can help find matching IVs, allowing attackers to decrypt the encryption key. Used by WEP (vulnerable) and not used by more secure types like WPA2 and WPA3.
* Jamming: Interfearance corrupts or destroys a wireless signal stopping communication with WAPs.
  * Electronic Interference (EMI): Interference caused by motors, machinery, and lights
  * Radio Frequency Interference (RFI): Interference on a radio channel caused by wireless devices/phones/microwaves on the same channel
  * Jamming Attack: Using a transmitter on the same frequency as the wireless network
  * Spark Jamming: Most effective jamming, sends RF bursts at a rapid pace but can be detected easier
  * Random Noise Jamming: Produces radio signals with random amplitudes/frequencies. This is harder to identify and can occur naturally.
  * Random Pulse Jamming: Uses radio frequencies to pules a random amplitude and frequency to interfere with a network.
* Deauthentication Attacks: The attacker pretends to be the router, disconnects the user, and when the user reconnects the attacker can intercept the user's information
* Disassociation Attacks: Similar to deauth., this tricks the user into giving the fake router responsibility of forwarding packets.
</br></br></br>
* Personal Area Network (PAN): Bluetooth allows devices to communicate if nearby.
* This uses infrared (IR) communication for lower power consumption. This uses Adaptive Frequency Hopping (AFH) and operates in 2.4 GHz range
* Bluejacking: Sends unwanted messages to devices close by and in discovery mode. (Cannot steal data)
* Bluesnarfing: Exploits the Object Exchange (OBEX) protocol allowing attacker to pair to a target device. This then allows the attacker to read information from the device. Many devices can prevent bluesnarfing but still a known vulnerability.
* Radio Frequency Identification (RDIF): use radio waves from small circuit boards to send signals
  * Active RFID: Onboard batteries that send the signal over a longer distance.
  * Passive RFID: Not powered and uses the energy of the scanner to transmit the data (ID badges, credit cards)
  * Eavesdropping: uses an RFID reader to listen for conversations between a tag and a reader.
  * Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) Attacks: Intercepts a signal, and then changes/captures it before retransmitting it to the recipient.
  * Denial of Service (DoS) Attacks: Blocks radio signals or jams systems with noise.
  * Cloning ad spoofing: Creates a copy of an existing tag to gain access to a secure system.
  * Protections: Make them operate at different frequencies making it harder to scan.
* Near Field Communication (NFC): Allows two-way communication between devices - must be very close to one another - newer tech built on RFID
  * A lost NFC device lets anyone access the NFC resource.
  * Can be jammed, replayed, or used in MitM attacks.
 
## 8.3 Wireless Defences
* Weak Configuration Protections: 
  * Change default usernames and passwords on devices: These can be guesses or looked up online
  * Change default service set identification (SSID) and broadcast: Change the default name of the broadcast and do not include identifiable names/addresses/other info.
  * Enable MAC address filtering: Filter the addresses that are allowed on the network and do not let unknown users connection to the network.
  * Update firmware: regularly check for updates and update as needed
  *  Enable WAP firewall: Many WAPs come with a built-in firewall
  *  WiFi signal strength: Make it strong enough for all users in the locations, but not stronger so outside users cannot try to connect.
* Cryptographic protocols:
  * WPA2: WPA protocol related to 802.11i specifications
  * WPA2 Types: WPA2-Personal (WPA2-PSK) and WPA2 Enterprise
    * WPA2-Personal or WPA2-Pre Shared Key (WPA2-PSK): Uses a pre-shared key or passphrase to protect the network
      * Uses AES with cipher mode with Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (AES-CCMP) to encrypt data
      * Uses a 4-way handshake to authenticate when connecting to the access point.
      * (1. ANonce ->, 2. <-SNonce + MIC, 3. GTK + MIC ->, 4. <- SNonce + MIC)
      * Handshake can be captured and vulnerable to offline password attacks.
    * WPA2-Enterprice uses a RADIUS server to authenticate to the network.
  * WPA3: Wifi protected Access 3 - supports WPA2 and use neter technologies
    * Implements Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE): 128-bit PSK, and Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS) to auth. users.
    * Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS): cryptography method generating a new key per transmission. This makes handshakes more secure from interception
</br></br></br>
* Access Methods:
  * Pre-shared Key (PSK): A passphrase that is used to access the network - the most common method.
  * WiFi Protected Setup (WPS): Only works with WPA2 with a PSK - allows users to connect to the network without the PSK
    * Push the button on the router to look for devices in range, if no button then an 8-digit pin.
    * Insecure, do not use - can be brute forced
  * Open Network: A network with no authentication at all. Should only be used in public places offering free WiFi.
  * Captive Portal: Makes the user interact with a site before connecting to the network. Can be used to agree to terms or pay a fee before full internet use.
</br></br></br>
* Authentication Protocols:
  * 802.1x: Standard for LAN networks to auth users. Created by IEEE-SA. This involves three components:
    * Supplicant: the wireless client
    * Authentication Server: Contains database for user auth
    * Authenticator: Device responsible for handling connections between the authentication server and supplicant.
  * Remote Authentication Dial-In Service (RADIUS): A protocol used to auth. users in an enterprise environment to a wireless network. (AAA protocol)
    * RADIUS Server: required to centralize user accounts and auth. their information.
    * PKI: required for issuing certificates - A RADIUS server must have a server certificate.
    * WAP is a RADIUS client and needs a server for authentication
    * RADIUS Federation: many RADIUS servers communicate with each other to establish a trust relationship. Could be on many networks or many organizations.
  * Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP): An auth framework using various authentication methods to be used. Allows MFA and lets client and server negotiate the characteristics of authentication. 
  * Protected EAP (PEAP): Provides auth using an SSL or TLS tunnel with a single certificate - Mutual authentication with secure authentication channels.
  * EAP Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling (EAP-FAST): uses Protected Access Credentials (PAC) to authenticate users through TLS tunnel with client authentications.
    * Vulnerable to attackers who intercept PAC.
  * EAP-TLS: Uses Transport Layer Security (TLS) and is considered to be the most secure EAP version. Requires signed client-side and server-side CA PKI certificates.
    * Expensive to implement
  * EAP Tunneled TLS (EAP-TTLS): Also uses a CA-signed certificate - an updated version of EAP-TLS, requires only one CA-signed certificate on the server simplifying the implementation process.
  * 
