# Virtualization, Cloud Security, and Securing Mobile Devices
## 9.1 Host Virtualization
* Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI): Provides centralized hosting and management of desktop images
* VDI Benefits: Manage all desktops from a central location, easy to patch and manage vulnerabilities, and maintain consistency.
* Application Streaming: Applications are packaged and steamed by hosts, and each application has its own environment.
* Terminal Services: Applications are run on the server and only displayed by the host.
* Virtualization: Taking workstations, servers, storage, and networking and relocating physical devices to the cloud.
* Virtualization Benefits: Reduced expenses, minimal downtime, rapid provisioning, snapshots rollback, easy to move or copy VMs, simpler, less costly to own and operate.
* Hypervisor: A thin layer of software that resides between the guest operating system and hardware. Creates and runs VMs.
  * Type I: Runs on the bare metal server and guests run on the host (Machine -> VMs)
  * Type II: Runs on top of the OS (Machine -> Device OS -> VMs)

## 9.2 Virtual Networking
* Container-Based Virtualization: Lightweight OS Virtualization, containers can start up fast, share OS Kernels, and contain apps and binaries.
* Microservices: Threats each function of an application as an independent service that can be altered, updated, or taken down without the rest of the application.
  * Services are all independent and can be deployed independently.
  * Applications are broken apart by function
  * Each component is loosely coupled: a change in one should not affect others
  * Deployed via containers: Each microservice has its own container.
  * Quickly Scales: Scaling done based on the number of container instances.
* Infrastructure As Code (IAC): Allows creating repeatable processes for deploying infrastructure.
  * Replaces static scripts; has collaboration and automation tools; reduces shadow IT, more secure and less prone to vulnerabilities.
* Software Defined Networking (SDN): Decouples the management plane from the data plane.
  * Places intelligence higher in the stack.
  * Wholistic view of network and programmatic tuning based on activity, workloads, and more
  * Routers/switches become 'dumb devices' with intelligence handled by a centralized controller.
* Software Defined Visibility (SDV): Proactively responds to events and adjusts traffic, shuts down ports, logs, alerts, captures traffic, decrypts and inspects SSL,...
* Serverless Architecture: Infrastructure abstracted from the user (IaaS and PaaS) - Only the code is managed/deployed and can scale at the individual call level
  * Payment for the time that the function is called, not for the application to always be on.
* Servies Integration: Many cloud providers provide services like databases, networks, AI/ML, serverless, and more
* Resource Policies: Managed on-prem/in-cloud and enabled dynamic resource deployment, monitoring, management, and asset reclamation.
* Segmentation: Allows users to put different devices with different levels of security on different subnets. 
* Virtual Private Cloud: Can designate security levels and group subnets virtually as public or private.
* VPC Endpoints all connection of VPCs to each other using the provider's secure network.
* Transit Gateway: Connects VPCs (virtual private clouds) and how traffic is routed. 
* Secure Web Gateways: monitor web requests from internal users and evaluate them against the orgs' private policy. Good for blocking malicious activity. 
* Hardware Security <odiles (HCMs): Special purpose devices that manage encryption keys and perform cryptographic operations.
* VM Sprawl: Large number of VMs on a network without proper IT management. Usually because not destroyed when done with use. 
* VM Sprawl Avoidance:
  * Define VM Policy: Strict IT policy around VM use and creation
  * Create VM Templates: Standardized templates can use proper naming conventions and identify VM owners.
  * Implementation of Lifecycle Management: Ensure short-lived resources are reclaimed on time to ensure VMs are not forgotten.
  * Routinely Audit: Make sure that the policies that are created are enforced.
* VM Escape: A type of attack where a user breaks into a VM and then breaks out into surrounding resources, host OS, or other VMs
* Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB): Security Policy Enforcement - Authentication, single sign-on, credential mapping, device profiling, logging.
  * On-prem or in the cloud, and placed between the consumer and the cloud provider.
* Security as a Service (SECaaS): providers that offer security solutions more effectively than on-prem solutions
  * Includes authentication, anti-virus, anti-malware, intrusion detection, pen testing, SIEM, whatever the user wants to pay for.

## 9.3 SDN
* Software-Defined Networking (SDF): Architecture that allows for the management, control, and make changes to a network.
  * Cloud networking supports SDN through APIs
* Software-Defined Visibility (SDV): offers insight into the traffic on the virtual networks
* Controller: Inventory hardware components, gather network statistics, make decisions based on data, and facilitate communication between software from different vendors. Can make large or granular changes, and is used to manage the devices.
* Application Layer: communicates with the Control Layer with the Northbound Interface APIs
* Control Layer: Receives instructions to the Application Layer and then provides the physical layer with configuration and instructions
* Communicates with the Control Layer through Southbound APIs - this is where physical and virtual networking devices sit.
  * (Physical <-[Southbound APIs] <- Controller & Control Layer -> [Northbound APIs] ->Apps & Application Layer)
* DSN Advantages: Centerized, more granular control, lower overall cost, and labor, new life to old hardware, gather network information, communication between vendors
* Disadvantages: A newer technology, lack of vendor support, standards still being developed, and centralized control can be a cause for new security threats

## 9.4 Cloud Services
* The cloud: storage that is external to a company's personal data center for storage or automation
* Access Controls: Policies about who can access the data, ensures the third party ensures data security and data is secure enough in multiple locations.
* Virtualization Benefits: Automation and self-service, reduced time to market, increased speed to develop and deliver.
* 'X' as a Service (XaaS): Some item as a service - the service being something that is in the cloud for customers
* Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): Allows for the use of infrastructure in the cloud to host platforms and meet scaling needs.
  * IaaS also leverages automation and self-service, letting the customer to select hardware and software configurations and and provision their own infrastructure.
  * IAAS: You manage the OS and up
* Platform as a Service (PaaS): Environment comprised of computational resources (like test/dev environments) and can be easily configured.
  * Test environments easily created, multi-tenant, virtualize IP addresses, load balancers, VLANs, and can just install and test software.
  * PaaS: You manage the Data and Up
* Software as a Service (SaaS): Applications that are provided online on-demand. No set-up installation or configuration is required. (Office 365, Google Drive)
  * SaaS: You manage nothing
</br></br></br>
* Cloud Types:
  * Public: Cloud resources accessible to any customers in a multitenant model
  * Private: Cloud infrastructure accessible to a single customer
  * Community: Resources shared between organizations with common goals
  * Hybrid: A combination of cloud types and on-prem solutions
</br></br></br>
* Managed Service Provider (MSP): Delivers services on-premises at customer sites, data centers, or in third-party data centers.
  * This would be the IT department/equivalent
* Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP): Monitoring and managing security devices and systems 24x7
  * Firewalls, intrusion detections, VPNs, Vulnerability Scans, Anti-Virus, Anti-Malware, ransomware protection, and more
* On-Prem: The Company owns the infrastructure, has more control, is expensive to set up and run, and continual upgrades on infrastructure.
* Off-Prem: Don't own equipment, less control, patching and service by the provider, expenses for operating/usage.
* Fog-Computing: Extends cloud computing to the network's edge to process data where it is created (Edge Devices <-> Fog Nodes <-> Cloud Data Centers)
* Edge computing puts resources close to where data is created (a subset of fog computing)

## 9.5 Cloud Security
* High Availability: Cloud service providers replicate data into many zones for high availability, lower downtime, and allow for redirection during failures
* Avalibility Percentage: uptime/(uptime + downtime)
* Security Controls: Log monitor, audit security, enable firewall, and update components
* Secrets Management: Managing authentication credentials including passwords, encryption keys, usernames, passwords, email addresses, and private certificates
* Password Security Measures: Rotation, complexity, expiration, removing default passwords, and audit permissions regularly
* Cloud audits evaluate: security controls, performance, communications, data management, vulnerability and remediation management, privacy services, and compliance
* Cloud integration: integration of clouds, on-prem, and hybrid integration solutions
 </br></br>
* Virtual Networks: Connects virtual machines and devices through software. Can combine network hardware into one machine.
  * These have underlays of physical servers and routers for traffic, and overlays to connect VMs in a network.
* Tunnel Endpoints (TEPs): Connect encapsulated data from virtual networks to physical network servers
* Segmentation: Division of a network into smaller networks through VLANs and firewalls.
* Security Groups: Controls traffic to and from specific network resources.
* Firewalls: Used in Virtual Networks to protect segments through micro-segmentation.
* Virtual Network Benefits: Limit costs, and allow for the building of VMs, routers, bridges, and firewalls to meet given needs. \
* Public Subnets: a section of the network that has a direct connection to the internet and is easier to access from outsiders. 
* Private Subnets: Subnets that only allow connection from specific users and from specific sites.
* Application Programming Interface: Allows a programmer the ability to create applications
* API Security: Require auth., auth only needed functions, scan payloads, validate API schemes
* Security Groups: Check group policies, block SSH and RDP incoming traffic
* Instance Awareness: The ability for an application to use specific rules when interacting with one group or user compared to another group/user
* Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Endpoints: A virtual device that provides a connection between a private cloud and a cloud provider's services.
  * (VPC to CPS) (resources never traverse a network)
* Container: A standard unit of software containing the entire runtime environment for an application
  * Runtimes environment elements: Application, dependencies, liberties, binaries, and configuration files
* Container Security: Shares the OS kernel with other containers (making them lightweight)
 </br></br>
* Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB): An on-prem cloud-based software tool or service sitting between an organization and a cloud service provider.
  * This monitors communication for compliance with an org's security policies and procedures.
  * Can offer malware protection and encryption
  * Can give more specific protection than SWGs (secure web gateways or enterprise firewalls)
* Application Security: Use security best practices when deploying an application to the cloud. (Verify configuration, secure APIs and use encryption and MFA, limited auth.)
* Cloud-based Firewall: Sofware network device that is deployed in the cloud to protect against unwanted access
  * Limitations: Costs, segmentations, layers, SWGs
  * Segmentation: Implement Internal Segmented Firewalls (ISFWs) and Access Control Lists (ACLs) to control segments. Use rulesets and load balancers to regulate access to network segments
  * OSI Layers: Application Layer Firewalls for on later 7 of the OSI models and are 3rd generation firewalls.
    * Layer 7 firewalls will inspect inbound and outbound packets blocking violating packets.
    * Transport Layer (Layer 4) Firewalls log new and existing connections - if traffic is not part of a connection is it inspected
    * Block connections that do not meet requirements.
    * Network Layer Firewalls: Layer 3 - first gen firewalls - check source, destination, protocol, and ports - can protect against specific IP addresses.
  * Secure Web Gateways (SWG): Application level in the cloud filtering for malware from the user-side connections (Uses URL filtering, application control, data loss preventions, https inspections, and antivirus protections)

## 9.6 Mobile Device Manegment 
* App Whitelists: The process of identifying apps that a user can use on their mobile device.
* Geotagging: Using the embedded GPS coordinates to tage items such as images, videos, or other items
* Data Exfiltration: The unauthorized transfer of data off a computer or network
* Sandboxing: Isolation of an app that cannot affect the other areas of the device
* Jailbreaking: Process of removing protections placed by the manufacturer.
* Sideloading: Installing an app in a way not intended.
* Mobile Device Connection Methods: Celular, WiFi, Bluetooth, NFC, ANT, IR, USB, SATCOM
* Geofencing: Only letting a device operate in a given area.
* Security Considerations: Device remote wipe, content management, geofencing, geolocation, lock screen and passwords, biometrics, full device encryption.
</br></br>
* Mobile Device Management (MDM): Security solution allowing remove configuration profiles to be set up and updated remotely.
* Windows Intune: Popular MDM solutions, providing cloud-based remote management
  * Windows Intune Standalone: Cloud-only recommended solution managed from a web console from anywhere with internet access.
  * Hybrid MDM with Configuration Manager: Combines intune management with the config manager to administer content and manage the devices. 
* Azure Active Directory (Azure AD): Can enroll 10 devices for registering windows

## 9.7 MDM
* Mobile Device Management (MDM): Administration, tracking, controlling apps and updates, managing settings, and wiping devices remotely.
* Bring Your Own Device (BYOD): The practice of having employees bring their own devices for doing business.
* Mobile Application Management (MAM): Adminstration of applications on a mobile device, can install or remove apps or app functions remotely.
* Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM): A combination of MAM and MDM, allowing the admin to control the hardware and applications on the device.
* Microsoft Intune: Included with Windows Enterprise for 500+ users, integrating Azure AD allowing control of apps, data, and security policies
* Unified Endpoint Management (UEM): All-in-one device management solution letting the management of local, mobile, and IoT devices (printers, wearable devices, IoT devices.)
* MAM Configurations:
  * Intunn MDM+MAM: Manage apps using MAM and app protections with Intune MDM
  * MAM-WE: Manage apps with MAM and enroll devices in third-party Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM)
* Intune Application Lifecycle:
  * Add: Add the apps needed into intune
  * Deploy: Assign the app to users/devices managed and update them on the Azure Portal
  * Configure: Update deployed apps with new versions using Intune
  * Protect: Protect data in apps with access to corporate resources
  * Retire: Remove apps that are no longer needed or are outdated from the organization.
* App Catalog: A catalog allowing the organization to define the apps that a user can/cannot use. Apps can be assigned to specific groups
* Self-service Portal: A location where users can download apps they have access to from the org.
* Remote Management: Admins can push out updates for apps and remove the apps from the device if needed.

## 9.8 BYOD Security
* Malware Propagation: If one device is infected this can spread across the network
  * Solutions: NAC solution managing internet access, implement separate, isolated networks
* Loss of Sensitive Data Control: If data is copied from that device the org could lose access to that information.
  * Solutions: Implement an AUP about data on personal devices - consider enrolling mobile devices on MDM like Windows Intuns
* Malicious Insider Attacks: A user might be able to do an insider attack from a mobile device. 
  * Solutions: Implement an AUP specifying where and when mobile devices can be used and that mobile devices are subject to random searches if on-site.
* Device Management: If someone brings a device the user/org may not know who is responsible for what aspect of the device (OS, updates, anti-malware, installations...). 
  * Solutions: NAC solution that remediates devices before allowing network access.
* Support: If a user brings a device, who will provide support for the device and apps used on the device? 
  * Solutions: AUP stating support options, apps that get support, and how the user can get these apps.
* Corporate-Owned Device: Lets the business own and better control the activities performed on the mobile devices.
* Corporate-Owned, Personally Enabled (COPE): the company provides a list of approved devices for the user to choose from - the company owns but the user can manage the device.
* Choose Your Own Device (CYOD): The company provides a list of approved devices and the user chooses, ownership can vary based on the company policy.
* Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI): Technology using virtual machines/desktops

## 9.9 Embedded Systems
* Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA): An industrial computer system that monitors and controls processes with industrial equipment.
* Industrial Control Systems (ICS): All types of industrial automation - SCADA is an offset of ICS
* Distributed Control System (DCS): Control center used to control SCADA systems (can be far away from the systems themselves)
* DCS Components: 
  * Remote Terminal Units (RTU): these connect SCADA equipment to the network.
  * Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs): Also connects SCADA equipment to the network, but are less expensive.
* Internet of Things (IoT): Network of physical devices like vehicles, and appliances, with electronics that can connect and send data through the internet
* RIOT OS: A low-power OS system that allows these to operate (embedded systems, actuators, and sensors)
* RealSense OS X: Introl's depth-sensing tech for cameras and sensors.
* Nucleus and Integrity RTOS: Used for aerospace, industrial, automotive, and medical devices.
* Ubuntu Coore or Snappy: used with drones and robots
* Raspberry Pi: Small computer that can be a rogue access point, compact and powerful.
* Smart Home: Speakers, assistants, lights, plugs, and security cameras
* Unmanned Aerial vehicles (UAV): used for military campaigns, collecting and transmitting data, and receiving commands.
* Security Constraints: Collect data, lack of security/privacy, need secure data, regular patches needed
* Defences Against These Devices: Firewall, intrusion detection, security policies, authentication
</br></br></br>
* Short-Range Protocols: RFID, NFC, QR, Barcodes, WiFi, WiFi Direct, hotspots,
* Medium-Range Protocols: HaLow: WiFi extended range, LTE-Advanced
* Long-Range Protocols: LPWAN, VAST, Cellular
* Wired Communication: Ethernet, Multimedia over Coax Alliance (MoCA), Power-Line Communication (PLC)
* Subscriber Identity Module (SIM): Incrypts data, stores information, IMSI
</br></br></br>
* Appliances: Appliances contain WiFi connectivity to send data
* Enviormental Contols: Thermostat, Humidity/tempature control or monitoring
* Building automation: Wearable devices to connect to the internet for a variety of purposes
* Mainframe Computer: Powerful computer able to compute a lot of data.
* Real-Time Operating System (RTOS): OS that gives information in real-time without buffer delays.
* System on a Chip (SoC): Circuity board with components of a typical computer. (Like a Raspberry Pi)
* Multi-Function Display (MFD): Screen with buttons that display info - seen on ships, helicopters, airplanes...
* Medical Devices: Wearable devices that can be used to collect information that is sent to a doctor or used for self-monitoring.
* Arduino: System used for building electronic projects
* Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA): circuit manufactured to then be configured by the user
  * Config through Hardware Description Language (HDL) or Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)
* VoIP: Phone calls through an IP network.
* Cars: Remote start, car detection, collision prevention, self-driving.
