# Securing Data and Applications
## 10.1 Data Transmission Security
##### Protocols and use cases:
* DNSSEC: Voice and Video
* SSH: Time Synchronization (Port 22) used for tunneling and signing into remote hosts.
* S/MIME: Email and Web - Public Key Encryption - provides auth, integrity, non-repudiation, and confidentiality. 
* SRTP: File transfer - can secure VoIP
* LDAPS: Directory services (Port 636) - uses AD and needs a certificate to use
* FTPS: Remote access and secure file transfer (Port 989 and 990)
* SFTP: Remote file transfer and access management (Port 22)
* SNMPv3: Domain Name resolution and reporting IP devices
* SSL/TLS: Routing and switching - secure connection using Diffie-Hellman w/ session key. (TLS is the newer version with 7 step handshake)
* Secure POP/IMAP: network address allocation and subscription services, mail clients, (POP - Port TCP 110/SSL 995) (IMAP - Port TCP 143/SSL 993)
* IP: Connectionless protocol for network addressing and routing packets over a network.
* IPSec: suite of protocols to auth IP traffic
  * AH: Hashing to share a key to ensure data integrity
  * ESP: Transport or tunnel most to encapsulate data payload and ensure security
* TCP: Establishes connection between endpoints and guarantees delivery of packets
* UDP: Connectionless protocol with no guarantee of delivery.
* TCP Handshake: Used to establish a connection (SYN ->, SYN/ACK <-, ACK ->)
* Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC): Used to add security to DNS with digital signatures, no confidentiality but is used for chain of trust and no changes to data
* HTTPS: Relies on TLS for authentication and privacy over the internet, prevents MitM and eavesdropping (Post 443)
##### Secure Ports and Port Numbers
* DNSSEC UDP/TCP: 53
* FTPS TCP: 21 in explicit mode, 990 in implicit mode
* SFTP TCP: 22 (SSH) Using SSH
* HTTPS TCP: 443 Using TLS
* IMAP3 TCP: 993 Using TLS
* LDAPS TCP: 636 Using TLS
* POP3 TCP: 995 – Secure POP3 Using TLS
* SRTP UDP: 5004
* SNMPv3 UDP: 161 and 162
* SSH TCP: 22

## 10.2 Data Protection
* Data Loss Prevention: Using security to prevent confidential data from leaving an organization's network. (banking info, PHI, PII, records)
* Network DLP: A software or hardware solution that is installed near the network perimeter to analyze the network traffic to find sensitive data in violation of an org's security policies
* Endpoint DLP: Sofware running on the end user's workstation
* File-Level DLP: Software used to find sensitive files on the network embeds the security policy for when it is moved or copied.
* Information Rights Management (IRM): Business-to-business secure transfers of data
* Cloud DLP: Analyses traffic to/from the cloud for sensitive data (can be harder to monitor if transferred within the cloud.)
* Data Masking: Taking sensitive data and masking it with a different value
* Tokenization: replaces sensitive data with a token of random digits and letters to refer to the data
* Encryption: Process of changing plaintext into something that can be unreadable but retrievable.
* Digital Rights Management (DRM): Embed watermark into the document to prevent data copy.
* Dynamic Data Masking: Replaces the data information with something mimicking the original making it useful for data processing - the original can be retrieved
* Static Data Masking: Data at rest in a database or just a field or column
* IRM: Protects the data at a file level, embeds security policies, allows policies to move with a file, and allows controlled access to a file even outside of the company's system.

## 10.3 Web Application Attacks
* Privilege Escalation: obtain elevated privileges on a system (Sump the SAM, retrieve `/etc/passwd` or `/etc/shadow`, look for insecure files, DLL preloading)
* Cross-Site Scripting (XSS): An attacker injects malicious code into a dynamic website relying on user inputs.
  * Reflected: Malicious script comes from the current HTTP request
  * DOM-based: Client-side vulnerability rather than server-side
  * Persistent/Stored: The malicious script comes from the website's database
* Preventing XSS: Filter input on arrival, encode data on output, use appropriate headers, content security policy
* SQL Injection: Adding code into a data screen - used to bypass logins, extract data, or throw errors and get useful error messages
* DDL Injection: (Dynamic Link Library) Windows file that lets a program call existing functions - inserting code into a running function
* Preventing DDL Injections: Updated anti-virus, conduct scans, and not download software for untrusted sites.
* DDL Injection Steps:
  * Attach to a process
  * Allocate memory within the process
  * Copy the DLL and its path to the process memory and determine the memory address
  * Instruct the process to execute the DDL
* Created manually or through pen testing tools like Metasploit
* LDAP Injection: Like an SQL injection, passes the web server modified info to include malicious queries or codes
* XML Injections: Attack technique that manipulates the logic of XML applications/services
* Pointer Dereference: can cause an application to throw an exception error and crash - RCE (Remote Code Execution)
* Directory Traversal/Common Injection: Manipulates user inputs to gain access to a directory or file that should not be visible.
  * Also known as '../' or 'dot slash' attack
* Buffer Overflow: Taking a value that is larger than expected causing the storage to overflow into another storage location, writing data in adjacent memory.
* Race Conditions: When a program does not run in the sequential order anticipated, causing a null pointer reference.
  * Time to Check to Time of Use (TOCTTOU): race condition allowing an attacker to gain access before an authentication check - code inserted to reorder processes.
* Input validation: Sanitizing the input to ensure the information is safe before processing. 
* Replay Attacks: An unauthorized user captures network traffic and sends it to the original destination, which can change the data sent.
* Replay attack prevention: Timestamps, sequence numbers, or random session IDs.
* Integer Overflow: When the integer is larger than the type that the number is stored in causing the number to 'wrap-around' to the minimum value
* Cross-Site Request Forgery: (CSRF/XSRF): Expoting the website's triest in a user/app/IP address (victim needs to have valid cookies from previous recent visits)
* CSRF Attack Requirments:
  * Relevant action: An action in an app that the attacker has a reason to induce (privileged action, or action on user data)
  * Cookie-Based Session Handling: Acting using HTTP which relies on session cookies to identify the user who made the request.
  * No unpredictable request parameters: The request does not include strange or additional parameters.
* API Attacks: APIs are the translators between systems and software. They might expose logic and data which could expose weaknesses in the system.
  * API Attacks cause DoS/DDoS, data exfiltration, or code injection
  * Traditional methods (like port blocking) do not work
* Resource Exhaustion: Send requests until resources are exhausted (ex. - botnet causing DDoS)
* Memory Leak: Unintentional consumption of memory and not releasing memory when no longer used. This can lead to issues over time as memory is used up and not freed.
* SSL Stripping: MitM-type attack stripping away SSL Encryption - always use SSL and HSTS (only allowing connection over HTTPS and not HTTP)
* Shimming Attack: Wraps malicious code around good code, like a driver, to elevate the privilege or install backdoors.
* Refactoring Attack: Modifying the code when not changing functionality. The attack adds malicious code when reformatting the original code to be more efficient.
* Header Manipulation: Include commands in the header of a site to execute when the site is loaded up. (Good for XSS, session/web hijacking, and cooked modification)
* Pass the Hash: Collect the user's hashes to authenticate a remote server or service. (No password needed, just hash)
* Arbitrary/Remote Code Execution (RCE): when an intruder can execute a command at will (usually in an application) - one of the most serious attacks because of the amount of control on the system.
* Zero-Day Attacks: Attacks that take advantage of a previously unknown issue in the system/OS and have no current fix because no one knows it existed before.

## 10.4 Securing Data and Applications
* Software Development Models:
  * Waterfall: Sequential development from start to end
    * Life cycle: Requirements -> Design -> Implementation -> Testing -> Deployment -> Maintenance  
  * Agile: Places the emphasis on the needs of the customer developing items by function in iterations
    * Continuously changing, never-ending versions, bug fixes, enhancements
    * Several 'sprints' consisting of plan -> design -> build -> test -> review -> launch
  * Spiral: Sever iteration of waterfall model to produce several tested prototypes
* Coding Compile Errors: during the build/compilation stage and prevent running
* Coding Runtime Errors: During execution, software can not always resolve
* Needed Testing Methods:
  * Static Security Testing (SAST):
    * Whitebox testing
    * sources code and binaries analyzed
    * language specific, run continuously
    * widely applied
    * high false positives
    * Limited detecting capabilities
  * Dynamic Security Testing (DAST):
    * Black box testing
    * Scans during the run time
    * Not language specific
    * fewer false positives
    * hard to automate
    * can take a while to test
  * Iterative Security Testing (IAST):
    * Passive IAST:
      * Built into SAST
      * Use source scanners
      * works in runtime
    * Active IAST:
      * Accesses interpreters and compilers
      * Identifies specific issues in runtime
      * Speeds up testing time
</br></br></br>
* Automated Testing Uses: repeated testing, time-consuming testing, and complicated tests
* Manual Testing Uses: New test, frequently changing tests
* Automation process:
  * Select the appropriate automation tool
  * Define testing scope
  * Planning, designing, and development
  * test execution
  * Maintenance
* Continuous Validation: Creates reports on requirements, functions, and vulnerabilities
* Continuous Monitoring: Supplies control functions, error detection, configuration issues, and process tracking.
</br></br></br>
* Code repositories: Where source cost and related artifacts are stored (Git is most popular)
* Version Control Stages: [Top] Master, Release, Hotfix, Development, Features [bottom]
* Verison Control Info: Who, what, when, where why
* Provisioning: Giving users access with privileges and permissions (Principle of least privilege)
</br></br></br>
* Normalization: Data is reorganized in a database to eliminate redundancy by having data in one place and storing related items together.
* Stored Procedures: One or more database statements stored as a group in a database's dictionary that executes with all the statements in the collection is called.
  * Centralized code, eliminates the need to recreate code, keeps calling rules consistent, protects code from users, limits injection attacks
* Code Obfuscation/Camouflage - altes the code and makes it hard for humans to read/understand
* Code Reuse: Using the same code many times, avoid duplication, and test comprehensively.
* Dead Code: Do not keep code that is not executed.
* Memory Management: Memory is finite so when it is no longer needed it should be freed up (limit characters, define constants for size arguments, don't allow user input)
* Third-Party Libraries: Code where the libraries are not maintained in-house
* Software Development Kits (SDKs): A set of software tools installed as one unit.
* Third-party code could have errors and not be patched often
* Data Exposure: Allowing data to be accessed by software or users that are not supposed to have access
* Data Exposure Prevention: Encrypt data in transit and as rest, disable caching, and implement hashed and salted passwords.
* Fuzz Testing: A testing technique that exposes security problems by providing all sorts of test inputs
  * Mutation-based Fuzzing: changing values and testing edge cases
  * Generation-based Fuzzing: creating new test cases
* Code Signing: The process of encrypting executables and scripts to confirm the software author and make sure it has not been tampered with.
</br></br></br>
* Application Hardening: Strengthening a device by removing app-related security issues.
  * Assume all apps are flawed
  * Remove unused apps
  * limit app privlages
  * Install security software; antivirus, anti-spyware, anti-rootkit
  * update applications with the latest patches
  * Identify baselines
  * Process spawning: Blocking emerging child processes
  * New executable files: Block except as needed
  * Existing executable modifications: Block modifying the executable file
  * Protect OS components (directories, files, users...)
  * monitor log files and use log monitoring software.
